My issue coming into the year is risk
was mispriced.
>> There is no base case.
>> We continue to cycle through these
different existential fears.
>> We're at the mercy of headlines.
>> There is serious correction risk.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday, tension builds. The war
with Iran entering its sixth day with no
sign of deescalation as problems are
mounting for aviation. Cancelled flights
topping 23,000. And China is telling the
nation's largest refineries to suspend
gasoline exports. Energy advancing this
morning.
>> And it really is the choke point of this
entire altercation. Right now, people
want to be optimistic that there's going
to be a short end. They want to be
optimistic that they can go back into
risk assets and we saw that yesterday.
But then you get uh news items like an
oil tanker offshore of Kuwait getting
hit and possibly leaking. Turns out it's
water. But either way, people definitely
on edge this morning.
>> A lot of headlines coming out of Asia
and you're going to see more. Massively
exposed, vulnerable to the supply coming
out of the Middle East. There's a bit of
good news. There's a cushion here.
Refineries typically have 2 to 3 weeks
of inventories. You've seen China
stockpiling onshore over the last year
or so. And you've seen a lot of Iranian
crude held offshore in tankers. Now,
that's going to last two to three weeks.
And from there, things get a lot harder,
which is why people keep going back to
the calendar. The longer it goes on, the
harder it becomes.
>> And I'm struck by what Paul Sanki said
yesterday of Seni Research, which is
that ultimately people, if you look at
the forward-looking curve, people are
expecting this to be resolved. They're
expecting there to be some sort of day
where there is a resolution and oil can
get flowing again. What will it take for
people to gain confidence and then go
back to risk assets? The fact that
yesterday we got that rally. I really do
think that that is indicative of where
people's minds are. There are a lot of
whatifs that look pretty terrible there.
People want to look past that right now.
>> So, let's sit on the market. So, in the
past few days, we haven't made new lows
in the equity market and we haven't made
new highs in the commodity market. Now,
there's an old line on Wall Street. If
you want to make a fool of someone, ask
them to make a prediction on crude. And
everyone is making a prediction on crude
right now. That's where the market is.
So the epicenter of a lot of this is a
bet that maybe the biggest part of the
rally is over.
>> And part of this is because you are
seeing Saudi Arabia go to other
channels. The Red Sea for example, which
isn't exactly safe passage. Nonetheless,
they are trying to divert over there.
There also are pipelines. There also is
this shadow fleet as you were talking
about the fact uh that China and Japan
and some of the Southeast Asian
countries have some alternatives after
depending on this region. That said, the
question is how far will it go before
people start to price this in? And does
the market have to respond to offer up
the check to policy to maybe change
course? And this is sort of where we
were in April of last year. How much is
the market the ultimate arbiter of how
long this can go on
>> right now? It's not really pushing back
within 2% of alltime highs on the S&P
500. The stock market is certainly not
pushing back and the balls are starting
to line up. So we'll catch up with
Jonathan Kinsky of BTIG later. He thinks
we're right for a bounce. Eric Johnston
looking for the same thing. I've seen
similar from Goldman, similar from
Citadel. You're starting to see more and
more people get interested right here.
>> Yeah. And they're looking at the
technicals and saying there's been sort
of a flushing out of some of the pain
trades. Think about all the people who
are short dollar assets. All of a sudden
the dollar rips and that kind of uh
turns that all on its head. The Cosby
selling off in tandem with silver. I
mean there are a lot of these correlated
trades and you wonder how much that's
already been washed out. We also got
some data and I think this is important.
Yesterday we got ISM services climbing
to the highest levels going back to
20122. The components were good. We got
ADP numbers that came out at the highest
levels going back seven months. So if
you look at the underlying economy, it's
fine. It's doing okay. So at this point,
people want to take a look at those
fundamentals and not necessarily make
what ultimately is a fool's game.
>> Jobless claims a little bit later this
morning at 8:30 Eastern time. Look at
the claims data. And then onto Friday,
we'll look ahead to payrolls data
tomorrow morning. Coming up this hour,
no Dixon of State Street with stocks
looking to sustain momentum. Brian
Gardner of Stifel as Iran escalates its
retaliation and Ben Writers of Melius as
big tech pledges to cover energy costs.
We begin this hour with stock steady
with all eyes on geopolitics. Null Dixon
of State Street writing, "We expect
volatility for markets to continue in
the medium-term as investors reluctantly
accept the new reality of reacelerating
inflation." Null joins us now for more.
Null, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Let's talk about that new reality.
>> Sure.
>> Your words reacelerating inflation. What
makes that so real for you?
>> Yeah, so I think uh you know the risk is
certainly piling up. I think before this
event occurred, 3-month annualized uh
inflation when we look at PCE was
leaning more towards 3%. Uh now we have
this uh potential for an energy shock. I
don't think anyone really knows uh where
it's going to end up and we know that
the transmission mechanism as it relates
to energy prices into goods prices for
example that's a lot more quicker than
say tariffs if you will. So I think
we're going to have a situation uh even
when we look at PPI the financial
components the healthcare components
January PCE is going to be pretty firm.
So I think we're going to have this
inflation that uh investors are going to
have to come to grips with. Um and I
think that could be problematic for risk
moving forward.
>> Well let's talk about bonds before we
get into equities. Sure. Tonyear bond
yields right now closer to four than
425.
>> Y
>> is that a problem? I think it is a
problem and I think it's a it's actually
an opportunity I think to go short the
long end. Um I think whether you look at
uh real growth or I think inflation
expectations will start to pick up uh
break evens will start to break out. I
think that's a real opportunity to short
the long end.
>> Can you go short the long end and be
long risk in assets like stocks in
assets like credit?
>> I don't think so in the medium term. I
think right now we've been in this
trading range on the S&P 6800 to 7,000.
Um, and I think uh when the data starts
to come out and people start to grapple
with the reality that inflation's here
to stay at least for the next few
prints, I think we could break out to to
the low side on equities. And I'm I'm
eyeing more like the 200 day moving
average.
>> Typically, when there are oil shocks,
especially if they're not longived, they
typically are transitory. They
typically, if anything, could be even
disinflationary because they jack up
prices and they reduce consumer spending
power. Why is this term this time
different in terms of its longerterm
ramifications in the bond market and
forward-looking expectations that
haven't really woken up to that yet?
>> Yeah, I think we're in uncharted
territory. Um because, you know,
typically I think investors are
reluctant to uh get rid of risk exposure
because geopolitical events, it's never
wise to overreact and that's been the
typical train of thought. On average,
equities recover over 43 days on average
with the exception of the 1973 oil
embargo. And if you recall, equities
correct at more than 40%. So, where are
we? I think we're somewhere in the
middle of that. Um, and I think it's
only a matter of time before markets
start to embrace that aspect.
>> Well, let's sit on the stock story. If
we get higher nominal growth with hot
inflation, unequity is a good hedge for
that. that they typically perform well
against that backdrop and a Federal
Reserve is not willing to step in and
hike anytime soon.
>> I don't think so because of where
valuations are. I think valuations are
are very highly priced and keep in mind
it's all about DCF uh discounted cash
flows and that longerterm rate. I think
there's going to be some pressure and a
lot of focus on that end. And I think
the the projection with current rate
cuts are really in jeopardy. I think
>> well let's get into valuations. We have
seen a valuation reset in certain parts
of the stock market particularly around
software. What's your advice to people
that are seeing these dislocations
emerge through the year so far and
anticipating the next several months of
the same kind of thing? You're looking
for more volatility. How should they
take advantage of those dislocations?
>> Yeah, I think it's I think it is a good
opportunity to look for the companies
that have done well, software, cloud,
semiconductors. Uh I just think we could
get uh them at a lower price. So I think
wait it out a little bit, you know, see
how things play out over the couple of
months and then start to look for
opportunities and be selective with your
picks. How are how do you know you're
not out of the frying out of the frying
pan and into the fire? The idea that
you're trying to avoid inflation so you
go into the AI disruption story and get
blown up. I mean, there are all of these
countering crises that are developing in
other places. Why do you think that
crisis is maybe more overblown than say
an oil shock?
>> Yeah, I think that the concern there was
uh in the software space to overspend um
as it relates to to AI buildout. I think
those companies a lot of the you know
mag seven if you will their uh core
businesses were doing well plenty of
cash flow irrespective of the money that
they're spending on capex so I think
that story is still alive and well and
this this will present an opportunity I
just think right now chasing any rallies
we're in a trading range and I think
that could be naive to do so let's let's
give it a little weight
>> how much are we going to look back on
2026 as very similar in some ways to
and even 2024 when people said this is
going to be the year of broadening out.
This is going to be the year when the
rest of the S&P 493 do really well and
that gets turned on its head in the most
painful way possible before we get to
the halfear point. Is it going to be the
same this year?
>> I think it will be the same because I
think for the for the midcaps and for
the smaller area of the equity market to
perform, we need the rate cuts. And I
think right now that's going to be put
into question. But what's not going to
be put into question is the earning
powers of these tech companies who have
proved to be impervious to higher rates
as long as we have the underlying
growth, which I think we will have.
>> If you've been away for a while and you
came back and said, "Tell me what
earnings have done." Earnings have been
fine. And if you said, "Tell me where
the economy is." You'd say, "Oh, the
labor market's starting to firm up a
little bit. Just had a great ISM, best
since 2022."
And you'd probably be confident about
the future given what's in the pipeline.
It's everything else. It's a massive
distraction. I understand why it's a
distraction for good reason. But to your
point, strong ISM going into payrolls
tomorrow and we hope we see more of the
same.
>> This is the reason why people want to be
optimistic. This is the reason why you
get one headline that gives you a sense
that maybe there's an offramp and
everybody runs to buy risk. It's the
reason why Scott Rubiner and the folks
over at Goldman Sachs are looking for
some sort of bounce at this point saying
buy everything. But then there's this
whatif case. Have we accurately priced
in a potential oil shock? And that what
if is a pretty big what if? And I think
that that's why some people are watching
inflation as the boogeyman. just holding
people back just a bit. What's the skunk
of the party? As Jamie told you this
week,
>> if the skunk doesn't release, it's fine.
You know, it's just sort of the smell.
It's like, you know,
>> the skunk's arrived. It hasn't released.
Is that okay? Is that how we're we're
framing things this morning?
>> Let's move on quickly.
>> No, thank you, sir. It's good to see
you. Thanks for dropping by. Appreciate
it. No Dixon there of Stage Street.
Payrolls tomorrow morning. The median
SMR survey 55K. Big range. There's
always a big range. The high is 113. The
low is -9K. That's the guest for 8:30
tomorrow morning. Jobless claims coming
up a little bit later. Let's keep an
update on stories worldwide. Let's get
you your Bloomberg brief. Yhira has
more. Hey, Yahira.
>> Good morning, John. The Iran conflict is
entering its sixth day. President Trump
says the US is in a very strong position
and that nearly all Iranian leadership
succession candidates have been killed
in military strikes. Thrron saying it
will ramp up retaliatory attacks in the
coming days.
An oil tanker off the coast of Iraq
suffered an explosion signaling wider
risk to shipping in the Persian Gulf.
Iranian state media reporting an oil
tanker was struck early Thursday by the
Islamic Revol revolutionary guards core
navy. The oil tanker is the largest to
be hit and follows a strike on a
container ship in the straight of Hormuz
earlier this week. And Anthropic is
resuming talks with the defense
department, raising the possibility that
the two sides can resolve their feuds.
Discussions of course broke down last
week after the startup demanded its
models not be used for mass surveillance
or autonomous weapons deployment. The
Pentagon then declared anthropic a
supply chain risk. Dr. Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhara. Thank you. More from Yihara later
this hour. Up next on the program,
making progress in Iran.
We're doing very well on uh on the war
front to put it mildly I would say.
Somebody said on a scale of 10 where
would you rate it? I said about a 15 and
uh we're going to continue to do well.
>> We'll get the latest in Washington next
with Tyler Kendall plus Ryan Gardner of
Stateful from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
What a ride for South Korean equities in
the last 48 hours. Up 10% today, down
12% yesterday. Today, the biggest 1-day
rally since 2008. Yesterday, the biggest
1-day drop we've ever seen in the South
Korean equity market on the Cosby by
9.63%
at the close. Equity futures stage side.
Here's a picture of things for you.
Futures across the board look like this
on the S&P, the NASDAQ, and a Russell
just about unchanged on the S&P 500. On
the NASDAQ, barely positive. Broadcom
numbers were pretty good. We'll talk
about them a little bit later, but it's
failing to spark a rally as you can see
at the index level. Let's turn to
commodities. Quick check of what's
happening on Brent and TI this morning.
Brain crude up by 2% 8310 WTI 7656
tension still building in the Middle
East and we're still getting reports
that certain things connected to energy
tankers and and the like still being hit
by projectiles
>> and part of the problem is is that this
tanker and the reason why this ignited a
lot of concern this tanker was not in
the straight of Hermoose this was just
in the Persian Gulf more generally so it
raises the spectre that any tanker
anywhere is fair game and that is
causing a lot of jitters
>> and event this morning making progress
in Iran.
>> We're doing very well on uh on the war
front, to put it mildly, I would say.
Somebody said, "On a scale of 10, where
would you rate it?" I said, "About a
15." And uh we're going to continue to
do well. We have the greatest military
in the world by far. You see it as well
as I do. You see the tremendous progress
that's being made. Their missiles are
being wiped out rapidly. Their launches
are being wiped out.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
Middle East conflict entering its sixth
day with no signs of easing. Iran vowing
to intensify attacks in the coming days.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
for more from Washington. Tyler, the
president calling it a 15. A 15. How are
we defining progress and success in this
conflict?
>> Yeah. Hey, John. Good morning. Well, at
this point, the US is saying that it's
moving into a second phase of this
conflict and that they've already hit
more than 2,000 Iranian targets inside
of the country. But that's a huge
question. And how is the US maintaining
and measuring progress as we try to get
some sort of idea of what the US is
eyeing when it comes to a duration of
the conflict? What would be considered
mission accomplished considering that
we've heard various goals outlined for
why this operation is uh currently being
uh undergone. Now the US and Israel are
expected to start striking deeper into
Iran. And that's something to watch out
for as our own analysts at Bloomberg
Economics say that this will include a
more dynamic targeting of Iranian
drones, naval assets, and potentially
nuclear sites. That's going to require
moving in to a closer range for contact.
Shorter range weapons are believed to be
in greater supply amid concerns that
there is a dwindling weapons stockpile.
Now, the administration won't commit to
a timeline here. We did hear from the
secretary Pete Hexath yesterday that
said that this could go on from three to
eight weeks. And John, I will add at the
moment there's no congressional backs
stop that could alter that timeline.
Important to note yesterday the Senate
ended up voting down a highly closely
watched war powers resolution which
means at the moment lawmakers are giving
the go-ahad to President Trump.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest out of the
nation's capital. Tyler, thank you. To
build on that conversation, Brian
Gardner of Steve writing, "Prices,
inflation, and jobs continue to be the
most important issues to voters.
National security and foreign policy
trail far behind." Brian joins us now
for more. Brian, that begs the question,
how much risk is the president willing
to take here?
>> I I think he's all in at this point. um
you know maybe if the markets start to
back up again then he reconsiders uh
because he you know as we've known
throughout the Trump presidency he does
point to the markets as a barometer for
his political success. Um but for now I
I think he's all in.
>> So Brian, when you say the markets,
which market are we talking about?
Sensitivity to the Dow or is it gas
prices? Does the energy move actually
matter?
>> Right. We're we're actually in the fog
of war, right, John? Uh Jonathan, it it
it it's it's tough to to figure out
which markets we are talking about. Um
you know, I was listening to you guys
earlier and you're talking about the
kind of the very modest responses that
we've had and that, you know, a lot
especially on the equity side that
people think that this is going to be
very short and that there's a buying
opportunity here and that it's all going
to be fine at at the end of the day. And
that may be correct. I'm I'm I'm not
here to say, you know, that's not the
the correct view, but there is a risk
that this goes on for longer than what
people are pricing in today. I mean, it
it's the old line. Wars are really easy
to start. They're much harder to stop.
And so, nobody but nobody knows for how
long this is going to go on and what the
ramifications are for the economy.
>> Yeah. markets though, stock markets in
particular, watch PCE, CPI, all sorts of
alphabet soup of different indicators. A
lot of individual consumers just look at
the price of gas that's put on a
billboard and that has been going up
sharply over the past couple of days. I
just wonder how far that can go before
that gets the White House's attention
more than anything that's happening in
stocks.
>> I I think when we get into the summer
season, uh let's see what what it's like
when we get closer to the driving season
of postmemorial day uh when Americans
hit the road. um and when they you know
head to the airports uh are airline
tickets uh prices going to start to go
up as fuel prices uh potentially rise?
Uh so again this is a this is a
potential political risk for the
administration. Let's go back a little
bit uh to October when he was meeting in
Asia right ahead of the the November
elections which were state and local but
a referendum on the Trump
administration. And what we saw was I
think was a reaction to a perception
that the president was too interested
internationally, not enough on domestic
affordability issues. And there was a
push back from voters. Uh you know,
we've got the midterm elections uh in
November. And this this is a significant
political risk for the administration
and Republicans generally.
>> Talking about the midterm elections,
President Trump hasn't weighed in on a
really contentious race in Texas for
quite a while. Well, now it's headed to
runoff between two Republican
candidates, John Corner and the senator,
uh, who has been a long-standing
Republican in the Congress and Texas
Attorney General Ken Paxton. Now,
President Trump is getting in there
saying, "I'm going to endorse somebody
and the other person's going to drop
out." Does this indicate he's going to
take a more significant role in some of
these races?
>> I I think we've already had those those
indications. Uh uh Lisa, I mean going
going back for months, I mean it was it
was the White House that was really um
uh behind a lot of the redistricting
efforts in Texas uh and in other states.
The president and the White House is
throwing its full weight has been
throwing its full weight unsuccessfully
so far to get Indiana to redistrict. The
White House is allin. They they really
want to maintain a a especially a House
Republican majority so they can avoid
investigations uh in a in a in the
second half of the term and try and get
some of the legislative agenda through
which would be blocked if Democrats flip
the House, much less the Senate. Um but
yeah, I I think I think we have had all
along lots of indications that this
White House is all in on the on the
midterm elections and and and
maintaining a majority for Republicans.
So Brian, with that in mind, as we
started the year, we had a flurry of
populist proposals one after another,
day after day, and it's kind of gone
quiet. Are we going to renew that effort
sometime soon?
>> So Jonathan, I I think it's a little
quiet because, you know, obviously the
big headlines of the day, the only
headline of the day is Iran, but behind
the scenes, there are still things going
on. Now you want I think Republicans
want those back in the headlines and
they want they want to be seen as as
addressing affordability issues. So they
they are going to pivot at some point
and and you know the rest of the agenda
the deregulatory agenda that doesn't
need congressional support that
continues as as uh you know there there
have been moves in among the banking
regulators. You know I I do a lot of
work with my KBW colleagues on banking
regulation. There's a lot of work going
on there. So the the agenda is generally
on track. The problem is that it's being
drowned out by everything else and
they're going to try and pivot and you
know message that they're working on
affordability issues. But the war
complicates that. There's no easy way to
shift a war off of the headlines and off
the top uh story of the evening news and
get back to those affordability issues.
>> Brian, does one inform the other? I
think that's what we're really trying to
get to here. Are we underestimating the
president's willingness to pursue his
goals in the Middle East despite the
effort elsewhere?
>> You know, I think what we have seen
throughout this year, the first year
plus of of the second term is that he is
looking legacy-wise. He is looking more
internationally than we would have maybe
have expected him to do so going into
the year. Venezuela here, the engagement
with with e the EU and NATO about future
policy. So I I think we have to try and
figure out how he sees his legacy and
what he wants to get within the context
too of of maintaining a a majority in
the midterms. But what I think the
signals have been all along that he is
very interested in a foreign policy uh
type of legacy. He keeps pointing to it.
He keeps pointing to the peace talks
that he is engaged in and I think he
sees that his in historical context as
potentially his biggest legacy.
>> Brian, it's good to see you.
>> Thanks for your input. Thank you, sir.
Brian Gardner there as thief for waging
on the situation in the Middle East and
developments here domestically as well.
We keep going back to this point. There
is a belief on Wall Street has been for
a long long time conditioned by
experience. I know that we get to a
certain point, a certain price, whether
it's in energy, bonds, or equities, and
the president in this White House backs
off and changes course. Is it different
with this effort?
>> We ask this every single time. We asked
this last April when we had the of
course liberation day and the potential
tariffs. How far would stock markets
have to go before there was some sort of
Trump put? It seems like there is still
a belief that there's a certain level of
pain that he is not willing to tolerate.
And it's unclear whether it comes in
equities or whether it comes frankly in
gasoline prices. Nonetheless, right now
the market isn't responding which
prolongs the scenario that much more if
you believe that there is some sort of
put. So, you know, get in line for that
wonderful circular thinking and it'll
make us have a really fun time.
>> We could keep going round and round.
Equities still within 2% of alltime
highs on the S&P 500 and the move in
energy has largely stalled. Crude is
high this morning by about 2% just short
of the highs of the week so far which
was about $85 a barrel on Brent. At the
moment we're at 83 on WTI at about 7660.
Up next on the program we'll catch up
with Bina Yuruchi of Tro Price as oil
prices begin to weigh on the outlook for
the economy. Plus Yihara is going to
drop by. She's got some morning movers.
The big one Broadcom doing nicely up in
the pre-market by more than 7% off the
back of a pretty promising outlook.
We'll get into that in just a moment.
from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV
to away programming. 8:30 Eastern time.
Look out for this. Mike McKe catching up
with another Fed official. Tom Barkin,
the Richmond Fed president. We'll catch
up with him in 2 hours time. Let's get
you some price action. Equities look
like this. What a volatile few days. A
bounce yesterday. This morning we stall.
Equity futures just about unchanged.
This from Kevin Gordon at Charles Swap
just yesterday. The S&P 500's max draw
down this year just 3%. The average
members max draw down this year 12%.
Vicious beneath the surface.
>> Amy was Silverman over at RBC called
this a paddling duck market. She called
that that about a year ago. It still is.
and it's paddling very fiercely which is
why if you see your fund manager and
they look exhausted give them a coffee.
It seems like this has been a really
difficult time right now a question of
how much this could be a stock picker
market and which risk you want to be
exposed to inflation risk or do you want
to be exposed to software and AI
disruption risk and right now that's the
parlor game on Wall Street. Let's turn
to the bond market for a fourth
consecutive day. Yields just a little
bit higher up another two on 10's 412.
The grind higher continues refocusing
sharpening the focus back on the
economy. Lisa mentioned the ISM out
yesterday. The strongest we've seen in a
few years going back to 2022. That's
promising. Seen that a few times already
this year. Now we want to see that
momentum into payrolls tomorrow morning.
>> And we saw also the ADP report coming
out with the strongest job growth in the
private sector going back about 7
months. The caveat of course is that the
ISMs haven't correlated with
forward-looking indicators like the
non-front payrolls all that directly. So
unclear. Even the components were
strong. You also saw ISM manufacturing
bounce back. This all gives a tenor a
sheen to this idea that maybe the US
economy is doing just fine. And if you
just let it, you know, do its thing, it
will be yeah, get out of the way and it
will accelerate.
>> So your bond yields a little bit higher
just eating away taking another bite out
of rate cut bets under Kevin Walsh when
he supposedly takes over later this
year. when this year I've got absolutely
no idea at this point. Let's get you
some single names as we count you down
to the opening about a few hours away.
Yahara has more. Hi Yhara.
>> Hi John. Shares of Broadcom are surging
nearly 7% in the pre-market on a bold AI
forecast. CEO Hawk Tan saying that the
chipmaker has line of sight to more than
$100 billion in AI chip sales for next
year. That would be a dramatic jump from
the $10.7 billion it's projecting for
this quarter and a sign that Broadcom
thinks the AI spending boom has legs at
a time when we know investors have been
questioning its durability. Uh, moving
on to Trade Desk, shares are surging
more than 16% in the pre-market on a
report by the information that the
advertising software company has held
talks with OpenAI to help it sell ads,
an area that could become a major
revenue stream for OpenAI as it looks to
monetize its 900 million weekly active
users. And for Trade Desk, whose stock
is down more than 30% this year. It
could help shift sentiment like it is
this morning. And we end on StubHub. Its
shares are plunging 13% in the
pre-market after it gave a disappointing
outlook. And according to analysts, the
missing ingredient was Taylor Swift.
They say that her Blockbuster era's tour
last year just drove huge ticket demand.
And without that type of mega tour this
year, it's just uh simply a tough act to
follow. Pardon my pun, John.
>> Ahara, thank you. Appreciate it. Do you
want my World Cup rant?
>> I think we're gonna have so many
opportunities. It's in the price of
tickets.
>> I was just gonna
>> just It's absolutely ridiculous. Now,
forgive me. You're going to hear this
about 20 different times over the next
100 days plus.
>> Go ahead.
>> It's absolutely ridiculous.
>> I was looking at that stock and I'm
thinking it couldn't have happened to a
nicer stock. I mean, ultimately, how
many people are not sad to see those
shares lower just because they feel
personally offended when they take a
look at the ticket prices of some of the
most popular events? I I don't disagree
with you.
>> The get in price for a random game at
the World Cup, a group stage match. Some
of the games thousands of dollars.
>> It's not really a step up problem
though, right? I mean,
>> sure. I appreciate and but you're right.
But you're right. How do you bring rank
and file people, average Americans into
a sport that they find completely
inaccessible? And then who is going to
come attend these games internationally
at a time when there are some questions
about immigration? I mean, honestly,
these are some of the questions that we
see.
>> Squandered. Just squandered.
>> Yeah, I know.
>> Squandered. This is such an accessible
sport. It's something you go and play in
a parking lot. Just get a football.
>> But for some reason, it's become a high
income game in this country. And I don't
understand why
>> because that's what we do to sports.
Have you seen basketball? Have you seen
so sad? I think it's ridiculous.
>> It's the same kind of thing. So, here we
are. But anyway, John's not going to be
going.
>> Not particularly relevant, but I promise
you that was an opportunity to have, you
know, do that a few times over the next
several months.
>> Thanks, John.
>> Okay, let's get back to serious stuff,
the real important stuff. On a radar
this morning, the Middle East conflict
now entering its sixth day. Countries
across the region reporting missile and
drone interceptions. Iran saying it
struck an oil tanker in the Persian Gulf
as Israel pummel targets across Thran.
China pulling the plug on its fuel
exports, holding shipments of diesel and
gasoline with the supply chain severely
disrupted. China pivoting to its
domestic energy demands as the Middle
East crisis continues to deepen. And
finally, questions mounting on the
status of the straight form. The Iranian
military saying the key shipping choke
point remains open despite vessel
traffic coming to a near total halt.
Yeah, this to me is sort of a semantic
argument, right? They might say, "Well,
we're not necessarily shutting
anything." What does it even mean to
shut a waterway that is pretty broad? I
mean, there's no it's not like you can
just press a button and say, "All right,
now it's closed." The real question is
who is going to voluntarily go through
that with the threat of personal and
physical harm being done to themselves
as well as to their ship. And that we're
seeing a lot of ships saying, "No, thank
you." A lot of operators say, "I think
not." And I think that that is the
reality.
>> Who is going to provide the insurance?
It always comes back to that and at what
price. Joining us now to discuss is
Bloomberg's Jamaa Baseti out of Dubai
happy to lead our coverage at a very
important time. Jamaa, welcome to the
program. We've all seen that report of a
tanker hit off of Q8. What are the
details that you've got for us this
morning?
>> Look, you know, to to draw on what you
and Lisa were just saying, uh this is
similar to the healthy playbook in the
Red Sea. Sometimes the threat of being
attacked is enough to scare vessels
away, and that's precisely what's
happening. The Iranian side are
maintaining that they haven't closed the
straight of Hormos but it's effectively
shut because no tankers and no vessels
are choose choosing to pass through it.
Uh it is immensely dangerous. There are
massive security risks and then add to
that uh huge shipping cost if you want
to pass through it and the cost of
rising insurance premium as well which
is skyrocketed over the course of the
first couple of days of this war and
even into the war even in in
anticipation of the war. And so for all
intents and purposes, it's operating as
though or the market is operating as
though the strait is effectively shut.
And you are seeing OPEC producers having
to change their behavior on the back of
that. It was only a couple of days ago
we were talking about Iraq uh cutting
down production because their storage
capacities are reaching full. Um and the
latest development being that Saudi
Saudi Aramco are leaning on this east
west pipeline so that they can start
exporting crude via the Red Sea. Uh they
do have an existing pip pipeline. It's
estimated it's got a capacity of up to 7
million barrels per day. They were using
little less than a third of that before
this all kicked off. And so it'll be
interesting to see how they ramp up
flows in the coming days and whether
they can actually offload a good chunk
of their oil to the market via the Red
Sea. Um but then you also see it in some
of the Asian customers too. I mean the
lion share of a lot of the petroleum
products passing through the straits is
headed towards Asia today. China
instructing some of their key refineries
to stop exporting and Japan also some
pressure now to release their own
strategic petroleum reserves. So
whatever way you spin it, even though
the Iranian side is maintaining that
that the street isn't closed, the fact
that ships and vessels are deciding not
to pass through it is creating clogs in
the system and it's having global global
ramifications now on energy markets.
>> Jamala, good to see you. Fantastic
coverage as always. Jamaal Baseti out of
Dubai this morning. There are ways
around workaround you can bring forward
maintenance. We've seen the refiners and
the so-called run rates being cut across
Asia. We know they've got some
inventories as well. Countries start to
suspend exports and really prioritize
domestic demand. But as we keep going
back to the same story, the longer it
goes on, the harder it becomes to
execute those workarounds.
>> And right now, shipping costs are rising
dramatically. And right now, shippers
are having the same kind of deja vu that
they had in 2022 and before that. And
there's a question here. I keep going
back to this Jeff Curry note. I know you
do as well. Uh from Carlilele talking
about the structural premium that needs
to be baked in for the trans shipment of
physical goods as a result of continual
supply disruptions.
>> Let's get you a take from the world of
economics. Lorina Yuchi of Tro Price
writing this on a global scale. $80
crude would drag global GDP growth by an
estimated 0.6% annual rate. Lina joins
us now for more. Blina, good morning.
Good to see you.
>> Good morning.
>> Let's get to that. Do you see this as
something that weighs more on growth
than weighs on inflation and pushes that
story higher?
>> I think uh we have to make a distinction
between uh whether a country is an oil
importer or exporter. Uh as as it with
regards to the US, I think it will be
more of a hit to inflation. Here's why.
The US has on net become an an oil
exporter over the last decade or so. And
so the the effect on GDP I think it
drags growth a little bit through the
hit to real disposable income but then
it also boosts the energy sector there.
So on net I think it's a modest drag to
growth but then when we look at the
inflationary effect it feeds really
quite quickly uh because our Bob
responds to global energy prices and I
think that's what I'm watching closely
for.
>> Is that a shock the federal reserve just
looks through ignores
>> again like I hate to be the economist
that says it depends. uh before COVID I
think they could have looked through
that because core inflation was below
one below 2% and it been been
undershooting the target for quite some
time. We're not in that world anymore
and core has been around 3% uh for the
last year and a half and I think one of
the reasons why inflation expectations
haven't been deanchored in the last year
and a half is because oil and food has
been so well behaved. Those are the
items that we buy a lot every day and
they tend to color inflation
expectations. But now none of that is to
be taken for granted, I'm afraid.
>> When you say that this will affect
inflation more than it will be a hit to
growth, what kind of inflation are we
talking about? There's a difference
between 9% inflation that we saw during
the pandemic and 3% inflation that a lot
of people seem to think is okay. I mean,
how are you looking at this?
>> We're certainly not going up to 9%,
right? But I think at this point when
the Federal Reserve has just cut
interest rates three times at the end of
last year and ease financial conditions
a fair bit to have another energy shock
uh I think we're talking about three and
a half maybe 4%. Let's see where oil
settles. Our baseline is that we reverse
some of these gains. But if they're not
reversed then you can see this adding.
My forecast for inflation was to be just
over 3% by the summer. This could add
another 3 4/10en to that. And then you
have another Fed chair that is intending
to come in with a bit of a dobbish tilt.
Let's see how that's possible when
headline inflation is so high.
>> So this goes to the flip story about the
growth shock and people have been
worried that we are in a sort of fragile
moment where it's not a runaway economy.
Things are fine, but you have this low
higher low fire dynamic that's causing a
lot of anxiety. What if it breaks to the
downside? And you have some people
saying that if you don't cut rates at
least in the middle of the year, you
could accelerate the growth shock aspect
of this. You're seeing that getting
priced in just a little bit in small
caps. How do you look at that? So I'm
less pessimistic about the growth of the
US economy to be fair. I think the US I
think of it as a large ship that is able
to withstand this shocks. It's
diversified. We have many sectors that
drive growth. It's yes services is one
of the largest yes consumers account for
a lot of growth but we have a lot of
capex as well we have an energy sector
and so on so I'm optimistic about growth
this year I think also we are
underestimating the effects of the one
big beautiful bill on consumer spending
we'll get those tax refunds this year
and we're already seeing in the consumer
spending data uh that they are resilient
I think this year so on top of that we
have uh capex spending from AI high you
look at company guidance relative to
last year I think it's even bigger than
uh in 2025 so yes steady interest rates
I think will help growth but even if we
don't get those cuts by the middle of
the year I think we'll be okay what is
happening in the labor market for me
it's not entirely a cyclical story there
are structural forces why payroll growth
is so low and you only need to look at
the unemployment rate with very low
payroll numbers that has been steady
throughout about 2025. That's telling
you something that maybe uh we were
labor hoarding and now that's being
reversed. We had that restriction in
labor supply. All those things I think
are making the labor market look weak
when I think it's more balanced.
>> How do you think that money is going to
be spent, those tax refunds? Where's it
going to be spent and on what?
>> I mean, serve.
>> I know what I'm spending it on and it's
not services. I've got some energy bills
to pay.
>> You are not using
>> Pick your favorite. Pick your favorite
utility provider. If I've got a tax
refund, I've got no idea if I get one or
not until I've processed my taxes. But
ultimately, if I do, I got some energy
bills to pay, don't you?
>> Um, we all do. We all do.
>> Look at the survey data. They're telling
you that there is some pickup in
services demand and and goods is not
rolling over. Um, I'm going to remain
optimistic about the US economy.
>> I share the optimism. There's a lot of
reasons to be optimistic. I'm just
questioning how those tax refunds are
going to be spent in the next few
months.
>> They're so responsible. You go out, you
go drinking with your friends, you buy a
new shirt,
>> maybe football tickets.
>> Yeah, there you go. Exactly. To help pay
for stuff.
>> I'm not sure that's the position that a
lot of Americans are in right now.
Blina, it's good to see you. Thank you,
Linda. Richie there of T-Re. Let's give
you an update on stories worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Yahara has more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. The number of Middle East
flights canled has surpassed 23,000
since the conflict in Iran began.
Amiradis extended its suspension of
Dubai services through Saturday and
Qatar Airways through Friday. Passengers
stranded in the region have been trying
to make their way to functioning
airports in Saudi Arabia and Oman.
China setting the lowest GDP growth
targets in decades, signaling the model
powering the country's economic rise is
showing strains. The goal of 4 and a
half to 5% growth in 2026 is the first
formal downgrade since 2023 with China
pledging to stabilize the housing market
and focusing on boosting household
spending. And Morgan Stanley is cutting
3% of its global workforce across all
business lines. The drop in headcount is
expected to include investment banking,
trading, as well as wealth and asset
management. A person familiar with the
matter tells us here at Bloomberg, the
cuts are tied to individual performance
and a change in business priorities.
Shares are down more than 1%. That's
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yihara in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, big tech footing the bill.
>> This agreement will ensure that America
can maintain the most advanced AI
infrastructure on the planet without
American families being forced to pick
up the tab. Your electric bills will
actually come down. It'll take a little
while, but not long.
>> Let's hope he's right. Ben Writers of
Melius joins us next from New York City
this morning. Good morning. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
Things are stable right now. Stocks are
unchanged on the S&P, on the NASDAQ, the
Russell slightly softer, lower, down
negative by a third of 1% in the
commodity market. Just to keep you up to
speed, keep us on track. What's
happening in Bren, what's happening on
WTI, we are climbing higher, but still
short of the highs of the week and the
highs of the year for that matter. $85 a
barrel just a few days ago, $8338.
Need to talk about the reality of the
conflict as well. just seen this
headline from the UAE intercepting 125
drones and six ballistic missiles in
just the last 24 hours.
>> This has been uh something that really
highlights how much Iran is lashing out
at some of its neighbors. And there is
this question about at what point the
fact that Saudi Arabia and United Arab
Emirates don't like to work together.
How much are they going to sort of join
forces and start to try to push back in
a more material way?
>> There's one of two ways, doesn't it?
Either they put the pressure on the US
to pull back or they're encouraged to
step in. One of those is a lot worse for
this oil price than the other.
>> Yeah. And potentially this could really
rearrange the Middle East and this is
what people are watching for right now.
>> Let's talk about energy. Anna Savanis
this morning. Big tech footing the bill.
>> This agreement will ensure that America
can maintain the most advanced AI
infrastructure on the planet without
American families being forced to pick
up the tab. We actually think they're
not going to stay. I think they're going
to actually, Chris, they're going to
actually come down. Electric. So, your
electric bills will actually come down.
It'll take a little while, but not long.
So, here's the latest this morning. Big
tech pledging to cover the energy cost
bills for massive AI projects.
Executives from Microsoft, Meta,
Alphabet, OpenAI appearing at the White
House for the announcement. Ben Rice of
Melius noting the pledge is non-binding
with no penalties for not complying. Ben
joins us now for more. Ben, are you
saying that was a PR event and not the
real deal?
Uh well with regard to the energy I
think that it's a very you know good
deal for the United States that the
companies foot the bill. I think that
you know it's very bullish obviously at
our firm we think for natural gas. Uh I
have a colleague who covers the energy
space and we think a lot of these
companies uh footing the bill is
probably one of the right things for the
long term and it's a good thing because
that'll help the political environment
and help fuel further builds down the
road. So it it helps grease the wheel
for capex unabated uh the better they do
with the energy problem. Now
>> two big names involved here, Microsoft,
Alphabet, others too. But on those two
names, Ben, why are you less bullish on
those two stocks right now?
>> Well, what they are they're donors to
the to the semis right now. So what's
happening is that Microsoft and Google
are taking all their free cash flow or
the vast majority of it and handing
checks directly to Nvidia, Broadcom,
AMD, Marll, Arista Networks, companies
like that. And what that we're calling
that the indeed the greatest wealth
transfer in history where uh all this
capex is just literally being handed to
other companies we cover. So for
investors that like to see stock
buybacks, increase dividends, they don't
want their companies raising debt all
the time, uh AI semis is still the place
to be. They'll underperform any given
week, but over time we think they keep
running.
>> Ben, will it affect all semis equally,
right? Is it Nvidia takes all or is this
actually starting to trickle out to the
broader sphere, especially as we saw
Broadcom yesterday after the bell? Well,
Broadcom, you know, may not be as well
known as Nvidia, but they touch on a ton
of the capex. They are the backbone for
AI networking, for Ethernet, which is
still the main standard, and they do
custom chips for uh most of Nvidia's
customers. Uh, in fact, we like both
companies. Um, the the companies are
arch rivals, and um and each has a
different strategy a little bit, but
both are capex plays. And I think the
big thing is uh those are two best to
breed. if you want if you want the
industry leader Nvidia who's really a
systems play uh helping shepherd the
whole industry and moving it forward and
then if you want to uh customize your
infrastructure uh Broadcom's a great
play and uh both of those seem like big
winners right now
>> right now and the question is how long
can some of these capex plans continue
to expand at the pace that they have and
I just want to link these two stories
the idea that some of the big
hyperscalers were coming under a lot of
regulatory pressure to pay for energy
costs as as well as potential
ramifications to the labor market. How
far can you see sort of a rerating in
that space before it starts to hit
expectations for semiconductors that
ultimately provide the chips for what
they're trying to do?
>> Yeah, it's a great point. I mean, what
you're talking about is something we've
been writing a lot about is that
investors love to see free cash flow.
So, those stocks, you've even seen
Amazon, uh, the big the big three clouds
have sort of stopped moving. even Google
after a great run in the second half
last year and and then uh where's it go?
We've actually seen a broadening out in
the rally to the other 492 stocks in the
S&P and Nvidia and Broadcom haven't even
worked because investors are looking
across into the end of the decade and
saying hey that that can't continue
because investors are going to revolt
against these clouds. What I what we're
thinking is actually that the cloud
revenues and the AI revenues though
could hockey stick upward for these
companies uh and justify the spend. Um
if if infrastructure and things
normalize, there could be hundreds of
billions of upside to AI and cloud
revenues as early as 28, more likely 29
and 30, but we'll have to be a little
patient. Um and uh that'll become more
visible we think as people use more AI
and realize the boom that's taking place
in productivity which substitutes a bit
for labor.
>> Ben, can we just finish on that wealth
transfer line? I thought that was great.
Where does Apple fit in to that wealth
transfer?
>> Now Apple's a toll taker really. Apple
is really uh what we use in our pockets
to access AI and they are in a pole
position. the stock really I mean it's
been up um but trailed um and hasn't
been really a a major outperformer but
what we think will happen to Apple is
they're really a toll taker um they are
gaining share they're not losing share
in their main product which then fuels
their services business and look we wish
they did a better job with Siri we wish
they did a better job with AI uh it's
been clunky uh they announced some stuff
this week it was really nice good
hardware but I mean it really didn't
move the needle in terms of the story.
What what really happens with Apple is
they're going to have foldables and new
iPhones that are more expensive that
drive upgrade cycles and revenue growth
for years and then they should be a
beneficiary of AI because you need
really strong iPhones to process it and
privatize your data and they're on top
of that and that's a hidden benefit. So
they're more of like a toll taker and uh
going to going to basically leverage
other people's technologies to then uh
monetize it uh in our hands. And I think
they will be a winner.
>> Enjoyed this framing. Ben, thanks for
your time. Ben Rice is there of Melius
with a buy by the way on Apple.
>> The greatest money transfer ever would
be from the hyperscalers to Nvidia and
the other semis and the toll takers.
Your eyeball.
>> Very cool. Very very cool. Up next on
the program, Eric Johnson of Can
Fitzgerald, the former deputy national
security adviser Victoria Coats, Mike
Pal of Black Rockck, and Jonathan
Krinsky bullish from BTIG. That's next.
This is blind peek.
>> The US does not want to be in this war
for the long haul.
>> Every day that passes, you're developing
a bigger and bigger problem.
>> The oil shock is not a big deal to us.
>> Our expectation is that it will be
modestly inflationary. Everything is
looking north right now on the inflation
numbers.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Savannah starts right now. And
your price action looks like this. We're
negative by a tenth of 1% on the S&P
after bouncing in yesterday's session
led by consumer discretionary read this
morning on the NASDAQ. We're down by a
tenth of 1%. In the commodity market,
Bren and WTI crude starting to climb,
starting to bounce again. Bren 8360. WTI
up another 3% and getting closer to $80.
>> Yeah, we were talking yesterday about
these three risks that have been
percolating. AI disruption, credit
fears, and then this exogenous threat of
higher energy prices. And I think that
you nailed it when we're talking about
the commodity analysts who come on and
say, "We're really concerned about this
and we could see some serious breaches
both in storage capacity and the ability
to bring supplies back online quickly
enough to avoid a real price spike."
This is not something the market wants
to see. That's not something the market
is reflecting. And I think that that
dissonance is intention as we get data
that shows that the US economy is
otherwise doing okay.
>> Let's take a step back and frame what's
happened in the last few days. You've
got a disruption to the movement of
energy through the straight of You've
had damage to the production of energy
across the Middle East. That's a
problem. And now you're starting to see
the dominoes fall to the more vulnerable
parts of the world, the bigger importers
in places like Asia. And you're tracking
the latest news out of the refineries
now talking about bringing forward
maintenance, cutting so-called runs,
suspending exports, and prioritizing
domestic demand. That's the next step.
Next step after that is something much,
much more severe that the market will
have to wake up to. If you start to see
production shut in beyond just Iraq, in
other places as well, like Saudi Arabia,
that's where the next leg higher in this
energy market is going to come from.
>> And you pair that with this feeling that
the global economy is doing okay. You
pair this with the idea that the reason
why energy prices have been as low as
they have been is because of an over
supply and the overs supplied oil market
has been the story for the past 12
months. How much can this turn this on
the head overnight? And that I think is
what people are watching. The longer
term ramifications, I think, are
unclear, and there still is going to be
this debate. Is this an inflationary
shock or is this ultimately going to be
a disinflationary shock down the line,
especially if the Fed prolongs any
additional uh rate cut decision as a
result of this?
>> Let's talk about the US. So, forgive the
home bias, the American perspective.
Right now, we produce between 13 to 14
million barrels of crude a day. Massive
energy producer. America is not Asia.
One, two. The economy is doing okay. You
pointed to the ISM claims later this
morning at 8:30 Eastern time. this
economy is in a better place. How
insulated is it from the messiness
that's developing abroad?
>> Yeah, the fact that GDP could remain
essentially flat even with some sort of
hit to the consumer given the fact that
energy accounts for such a significant
portion of the US economy. You bleed
this through the market and you could
see why some of the reversals have been
so violent because shorting the dollar,
short US assets, go to the rest of the
world was the dominant trade at the
beginning of the year. And suddenly,
guess who looks best insulated? Guess
who looks like they're the haven
currency and all of a sudden it triggers
the sort of nosebleleed type of scenario
where you see a lot of leverage
positions that are pushed out. I mean
the idea that energy was that that uh
the energy had been shifting I'm talking
about in in the stock market to to Asia
highlights just how big that reversal
could be.
>> Yeah, the Cosby would be best described
as a casino in the last two sessions.
The biggest one day move going back to
2008 higher today. Yesterday the biggest
one day drop on record. The Cosby all
over the place. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Eric Johnson of Can
Fitzgerald predicting a market rally.
We'll speak to the former deputy
national security adviser Victoria Coats
as the White House eyes Iran succession.
And Mike Pal joins us from Black Rockck
with crude supplies under threat. We
begin this hour with stocks edging lower
following yesterday's rebound. Eric
Johnson of Capifford Shar writing,
"There are many unknowns related to
Iran, but we have seen a significant hit
to valuation making the setup for a
rally attractive." Eric joins us now for
more. Eric, good morning.
>> Good morning. So you believe the
conditions are in place for a bounce
here. What are those conditions?
>> Uh we do. So and I I think I would say
that you know in the short term there's
clearly the risks around uh around Iran
around oil that are very real. But I
think any dip that comes from that I
think will be a viable uh a very viable
dip. So if you look at the conditions
you know earnings growth is clearly very
strong. We're talking about you know
mid- teens earnings growth. GDP uh we
think is going to be somewhere you know
north of 3%. Um, and if you look back in
in history, when you've had strong
earnings growth, you've had a strong
economy and the Fed is not fighting it,
that has been incredibly powerful. Um,
give you one stat. There's been 21 times
um, since 1955 when GDP has been over
two and a quarter% and the Fed was not
fighting it. The stocks were up 21 of 21
times and the average return is about
19.5% in those years. So, and it's the
same thing with earnings growth. So when
you have those dynamics in place,
they're extraordinarily powerful. And we
do think despite this jump that we've
seen in oil that if we look over the
course of the year that we are going to
have that backdrop continuing around
earnings growth and economic growth.
>> Have we had the dip yet?
>> So we've we've had it. I I would not be
surprised and I actually think we're
probably going to get one more the
longer this goes on. I think that the
risks around um some of the things that
you just referenced um around you know
storage um becoming a issue as oil
storage as as as the days go on and so
could we get another spike in oil um I
think that's very reasonable to think
and I think stocks would negatively
react to that um for sure. However, I
think we're talking about a very
short-term move lower as in days. And
so, if we look out when we look out over
the next two to, you know, four to six
months, um, you know, we think stocks
look very good.
>> You're not alone. There are others who
have been saying similar things.
Citadel, Goldman Sachs, I was talking
about them earlier. I'm just wondering
how much this is based on a technical
backdrop. The idea that leverage has
gotten blown up. A lot of consensus
trades absolutely destroyed. this idea
that the Cosby for example was
significantly driven by leveraged funds
particularly by the retailers. So at a
certain point how much does the uh wash
out of that make you confident?
>> That's very much you know part of it. I
mean if you look the technical backdrop
we've had a wash out in in silver. It's
since rebounded. We had a wash out in
crypto. We're starting to get the
rebound there within equities right
we've seen software mega cap tech get
hit hard. Um you've also seen the put
call ratio spike. We've had 25 days the
average put call ratio is about point
above 08 about83 which um outside of
liberation day is a 2-year high. Um if
you look at skew within the volatility
equity volatility market um skew is at
some of the steepest levels we've seen
in you know three or four years and so
there's been a lot of de-risking
sentiment has gotten hit and so when you
when you marry that with sort of that
backdrop that I was just referring to
it's a very good it's a very good
combination. So once the market sees a
little bit of a of a clearing I think
you could at that point get a very sharp
move based on those dynamics. The market
has not been trading like a monolith
this year. It's been a lot of churn.
We've been talking about that. There's
been a rotation out of the Magnificent
7, the rest of the 493, this broadening.
We were speaking with null Dixon of
Straight Street earlier and he was
saying he thinks that that's actually
going to reverse back to uh the
preference for Magnificent 7 as we do
come out of this period. Do you agree
with that?
>> I I I do. I think the Mag 7 uh or mega
cap tech in general um looks quite
attractive right now. So, you know, the
trade has been their free cash flow is
getting hit. They're becoming much more
capital inensive businesses and they're
starting to issue debt and their balance
sheets are in great shape, but um are
not as great as they were say one year
ago. Having said that, the multiples
have gotten hit very hard and I think
more than reflect that change in sort of
business model. And while that's
happened, their growth rate um has
actually been very strong. So, for
example, the PEG ratio for um you know,
for the NDX is at a 10-year low. Um so,
I think the setup and there's certainly
been a fair amount of de-risking. So, I
think the setup there is actually um is
actually very good, especially in a
world where there are a lot of risks,
you know, going to big strong balance
sheets um secular growth. I think the
market is so I do think we're going to
move back into uh the mega caps.
>> If we move back into the mega caps,
where does that leave the international
story? Came into the year risk appetite
really picked up. Lisa talked about the
Cosby. It wasn't just the Cosby, it was
the NK as well. Saw other big
international markets move higher. Does
that leave them exposed as the money
gravitates back to big cap tech?
>> I I think it does. I mean I think it's
been um you know part of the issue that
has caused the you know reduction in
sort of um you know US stocks relative
to rest of world and a lot of that that
has been due to this you know mega cap
trade getting getting hit. So I do think
it will take money um not only from some
of the more defensive areas of the US
market but also taking it from um you
know overseas market.
>> Is some of that dependent on what's
happening in the Middle East or not? Um
ultimately um no um you know in the
short term you know for for sure um but
I think ultimately um I don't think
that'll have that much of an impact. I
think a lot of the AI trends are going
to be much more powerful um than
anything that's going on geopolitical at
the moment.
>> One asset that really crystallizes this
is the dollar. Do you think the dollar
weakening is over for the year?
>> Um I do. I think that um sort of
sentiment I think went um a little bit
too far. And so, you know, we've seen a
little bit of a bounce. We've seen a
bounce in the dollar um over the last um
you know, week or so. Um I don't think
we're going to see some big degradation
in the dollar over the course of this
year. Um I think we're probably going to
see somewhat of, you know, stability um
hanging around, you know, the area that
we are right now. And I don't think also
we're going to see a big enough move to
have impact on US earnings for example.
Um I don't think that's going to be a
big factor.
>> DXY is having quite a week. It's up by
1.4% so far this week. Biggest week
again if we hold these levels since
August of last year.
>> There are two aspects to this. On one
hand it's showing that yes once again it
is a haven asset. But the second point I
think it's a really important one that
Dylan play uh the CEO of TESAC yesterday
was saying at Bloomberg Invest which is
they have a significant US dollar
exposure. They initially hedged it and
then it became so expensive as to be
punitive to hedge against that dollar
exposure that left them rather just
being exposed to the dollar assets and
hoping for appreciation. So it gives you
a sense of also the technicals behind
why this move might not be so
persistent.
>> There's a big positioning story going
down here. A lot of people caught
offside. The rally that we've seen in
the US dollar, the move we saw in South
Korea and international equities. A lot
of people getting squeezed big time
coming into this week. always say that
the market likes to exert the maximum
amount of pain at any given time and it
appears to be doing just that.
>> Eric, it's good to see you. Thanks for
being here. Thank you, sir. Conditions
are in place for a bounce. The view of
Eric Johnson of Canada Fitzgerald and
many others coming into this morning.
Let's keep an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's catch up with
Yahara for more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. The war on Iran entering a
sixth day with little sign of easing.
President Trump saying the US is in a
very strong position in the conflict and
that nearly all Iranian leadership
succession candidates have been killed
in military strikes. Thrron's military
says it will ramp up retaliatory t
attacks in the coming days. Uh
meanwhile, China's government has told
its top oil refiners to suspend exports
of diesel and gasoline immediately to
prioritize domestic demand amid the
Middle East conflict. According to
people familiar, refiners were told at a
meeting to stop signing new contracts
and to negotiate the cancellation of
already agreed to shipments. And the
number of Middle East flights canled has
surpassed 23,000 since the conflict in
Iran began. Emiratis extended its
suspension of Dubai services through
Saturday and Qatar Airways through
Friday. Uh passengers stranded in the
region have been trying to make their
way to functioning airports in Saudi
Arabia and Oman. That's Tup Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thank you very much.
Up next on the program, tracking Iran
succession.
>> We're in a very strong position now and
uh their leadership is just rapidly
going. Everybody that uh seems to want
to be a leader, they end up dead. Up
next, we'll catch up with the former
deputy national security adviser,
Victoria Coats, from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
Later this morning, 8:30 Eastern time,
another read on the labor market.
Jobless claims just around the corner.
Onto tomorrow at 8:30 tomorrow morning,
the payrolls report, the last big data
point going into the weekend. Equity
futures right now in the S&P 500
declining just a little bit on the S&P.
We're down by.1%. Similar move on the
NASDAQ on crude bouncing again. WTI and
Brent prices look like this 8365 or
Brent higher by almost 3%.
>> Yeah, and this is going to be the
ongoing focus given some of the
projections that things could get to
$130 a barrel, go back to the levels
that we saw during the height of 2022.
Is this a 2022 redux or are we seeing
something that has more offramps and
potentially could be finished in short
order?
>> I think we all hope it's the latter, but
we don't know for sure. 7724 right now
at WTI under Savylvanas this morning
tracking Iran's succession.
>> We're in a very strong position now and
uh their leadership is just rapidly
going. Everybody that uh seems to want
to be a leader, they end up dead. That
was a tremendous threat to us for many
years. 47 years they've been killing our
people and killing people from all over
the world. And I think we have great
support. And I think if we didn't do it
first, they would have done it to
Israel.
>> So here's the latest this morning. US
and Israeli military strikes creating
the largest power vacuum in Iran for
decades. With a slim chance of a popular
uprising, several candidates are
reportedly angling to take control.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
for more. Tyler, welcome back. What do
we know?
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, our own
analysts at Bloomberg Economics say that
while Iran's system is weakened, it
remains well entrenched. We are
expecting a leadership announcement
really any day now as the country
currently remains run by a threeperson
transitional council. What's known as
the Assembly of Experts, a clerical body
with 88 members has been meeting and
will choose the next Supreme Leader. But
as you mentioned, there have been
several contenders that are considered
to be in the running for the role. But
their names haven't really been
publicized in the wake of the
Ayatollah's death. though his second
eldest son who Iranian state media says
is alive is widely speculated to be the
frontr runner to succeed his father. Now
President Trump himself has said that
the US is hoping that a moderate leader
will emerge who can work with the United
States. He often cites Venezuela as a
model in his words where we saw existing
factions of a regime cooperate with the
US. But as you've just heard in that
bite played from President Trump there
yesterday, the US has conceded that a
lot of those contenders they have been
eyeing have been killed in the strikes.
In fact, President Trump said earlier
this week that the potential worstc case
scenario would be if a leader emerges
who is quote just as bad as the regime,
the US and Israel has been trying to
change. Now, John, I will say there is
reporting out there that President Trump
is considering openly supporting groups
who would be willing to uh take up arms
and dislodge the regime. Though when
asked directly about that yesterday,
White House press secretary Caroline
Levit said the president hasn't made any
confirmed plans yet.
>> Tyler Kendall in Washington. Tyler,
thank you. The former deputy national
security adviser Victoria Coats writing
the following indications are that
another theocratic protege of Ky is set
to take charge. This doesn't provide any
opening to an end of hostilities.
Victoria joins us now for more.
Victoria, welcome to the program. The
operation in Venezuela was surgical.
Caracus had Dowsy Rodriguez. How
different is the operation in Iran and
what's available to transition to in
Thran?
>> Well, it's radically different. I mean,
this is obviously a very significant
military campaign that the president has
initiated against the Islamic Republic,
which is going extremely well. By the
way, uh we are seeing a dramatic
reduction in the number of missiles Iran
is able to fire off at their neighbors
and at Israel. Uh and that that means
that they're running out of missiles
that we've also degraded their missile
defense systems and their launchers. So
that is going according to plan and I
think we'll see that that campaign
continue. But yes, we do have this
vacuum at the top of the the Iranian
government. There is a very hardline
cleric Ali Resa Arafi who is considered
for supreme leader. He's not very well
known. He does have some support in the
military. Another name that's been
floated is Hassan Rouani. Uh your
audience may remember him. He was
president from 2013 to 2021 and was the
lead negotiator on the uh Obama era
nuclear deal that did bring a fairly
significant economic relief to Iran. uh
so that he might be a fairly a fairly
popular name. And then finally you have
the uh the son of the deceased supreme
leader Matiba uh Kamani. He he is a much
more I think polarizing figure. He's
known for being extremely corrupt. He
does not have a great deal of support in
the army. So he he his name is obviously
very well known. He has a lot of power,
but it's not clear that that's going to
be well received by the Iranian people.
Well, given the objectives of the US
government, how well received would it
be by the American government, Victoria,
what's your sense on what would be
palatable to this White House?
>> No, I don't think that would be that
would be wellreceived at all. And I
wouldn't give him a particularly long
life expectancy if that if that were to
happen. And so I do think you're going
to have an ongoing sort of search for
individuals that are more pro-American,
that are willing to sort of oversee more
of a transition period. And don't count
the Iranian people out. You obviously
they've taken things into their own
hands before in 1979.
And the issues surrounding the uh
protests that we saw in December and
early January haven't gone away. As a
matter of fact, they've been made worse
by the military action of the United
States. This these are endemic uh
economic problems. they have just
runaway inflation and their their
currency is is cratering and their they
everyone is fleeing what's left of their
stock market. So you have a really
really horrible economic situation
eventually that does drive people out
onto the streets. So, especially with
the regime being revealed to be so weak
as the American intervention has
revealed them to be, you know, I do
think we have more than more a greater
chance perhaps of a popular uprising.
Victoria, everything that you're talking
about to find a new leader or to coales
around what that new leadership might
look like takes time. Do you have a
sense of how long that really implies
that this conflict could go on?
Well, what what it means is that they
can't really make decisions while
they're in this this kind of liinal
state without major leadership. And when
you're involved in, you know, a major
military conflict, that kind of vacuum
of leadership can be extremely deadly.
So, I think that is why you're you're
seeing some rather bizarre decisions out
of Thrron, like the intense attacks on
countries that had been mediators for
them like Oman and Qatar, you know, the
launching of a missile toward Turkey.
All of these things you suggest that
nobody's really firmly in charge. So I
don't think anybody knows how long this
is going to go on, nor do they know how
effective any new leadership would be
once it's chosen.
>> A number of analysts have raised the
point that yes, the US clearly has
superior military power as does Israel
and there's increasing pressure by
regional other regional countries to
stop Iran. At the same time, there have
been questions around ammunition,
ammunitions more broadly, and whether
the United States is running to an
uncomfortably low place. What do you
make of that?
>> Well, I I agree with Secretary Hegsth,
what he said yesterday that for this for
this engagement, I think we're we're
well supplied. I think we we will be
fine for the the weeks, not months, that
are likely to be the the time period for
for this uh for this episode. What
concerns me more is if we were in a
longer term war with a more powerful uh
adversary, namely China. And at the
Heritage Foundation, we've recently done
our first largescale AI based simulation
of what that would look like over a
year's period. And you know, given the
the capabilities of AI, we've been able
to run thousands of scenarios for both
us and China. And the ammunition is the
terrifying part. we really we run out
pretty quickly in that kind of a of a
conflict. So, I think we're okay for
Iran. I'm very concerned though going
forward that our stock piles will be way
too low. And so, we're very hopeful that
Congress uses the $ 1.5 trillion defense
budget that President Trump has proposed
to really remedy that that uh deficit.
>> Victoria, I think we're all intrigued
now. What else comes up when you perform
that scenario analysis?
Well, it I mean it really was
fascinating to see. I mean, we we call
it Project Tidal Wave. It's on our it's
on our website. Obviously, it's the
first report we've ever done that the
the US government asked us to redact
parts of it. They didn't they didn't
want our conclusions and recommendations
to be publicly uh publicly available and
we did agree to do that on the basis
that they would work with us on them. Uh
so, we're we're we're working on that
and ammunition is is one key piece of
it. The other piece we looked at closely
was energy because if we're in a in a
conflict with China, that's likely in
the Pacific, closer to China itself, and
we would have to project power across
the Pacific, which means we would have
to get all this ammunition and other
material across the ocean. And that's
also very concerning. We don't have the
tankers that we would need to move. We
have plentiful energy here at home,
obviously, but we don't have the means
to move it uh the way we would we would
need to in that kind of a conflict. So
we have we've it's a f it was a
fascinating project. We're considering
doing another very similar uh related
project on uh European conflict with
Russia. And so I think it's a it's a
really interesting example of how
artificial intelligence is transforming
you know policy analysis.
>> I have to be honest I'm finding it more
scary than interesting listening to you
talk about it. Appreciate your time.
Thank you Victoria. It's good to see
you. Victoria coach there the former
White House deputy national security
adviser. If you are sick of doom
scrolling, you can doom scenario at your
AI local chatbot. I mean, this is sort
of what uh is very fascinating but also
completely petrifying given some of the
scenarios out there.
>> This is real serious stuff. That's for
sure. And next on the program, Mike Pile
of Black Rockck with crude supply in a
choke hold.
Five more minutes with Victoria Coats.
I'm booking flights to Oakland and
digging my own bunker. I mean,
>> Look, I just I hope it doesn't come to
that. And the fact that they're doing
scenario analysis around a conflict
between the US and China is is very
concerning. At the same time, I think
she was just building on a point that is
more imminent, which is a question
around munitions. And I'm just going to
try to focus on that and not the whatifs
that could get plugged into AI and
Occupy the West.
>> You made a serious point. A lot of
questions being asked about it. That's
for sure. Equity futures right now on
the S&P. Let's give you a snapshot of
the price action. Just about unchanged
on the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ going
nowhere on the Russell negative by 0.4%
4% in the bond market for a fourth
consecutive day. Yield just been
grinding higher just a little bit not by
a lot but by another two basis points or
so 412 on 10's twos getting closer to
360. 60 minutes from now we'll catch up
with the Richmond Fed President Tom
Barkin. Mike McKe's going to speak to
him about how he sees monetary policy
responding or not to what's developing
elsewhere.
>> This market clearly is saying that the
Fed is going to remain potentially on
hold for longer given the fact that
there is this inflationary pressure.
Just to put into perspective this move
higher in yields, it has been a grind
higher. It has been the biggest grind
higher for four consecutive days going
back to May of last year. So it gives
you a sense of how unusual this is and
we've already heard from a number of Fed
officials saying look it is going to on
the margins make them wait and collect
more data except for Governor Myron who
sees
following a 30 basis point decline
through February. By the way, a 10-year
maturity yields are climbing off those
lows. As we count you down to the
opening battle a few hours away, let's
get you some morning movers. Danny
Burgerer has more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Starting with the winner of
the morning and is by far Broadcom.
Shares are up 6.3% in the pre-market
this morning. It's all about their 2027
outlook. 100 billion dollar worth of AI
chip sales. A real rivalry to Nvidia.
Just to give you an idea of how big of a
ramp up that would be. The current
quarter they're projected $10.7 billion.
So it's going to be a big year for them
next year. In the meantime, we had some
other retail earnings coming through. uh
Victoria Secret among them uh reporting
their best quarter in terms of revenue
since spinning off of LBRs. The shares
were up, but then we've had a sharp
turnaround. I need to look into this cuz
this has only happened in the past 10
minutes or so. We're now down 6.6%.
The brand has been under a lot of
pressure from shareholders to modernize.
They have a new CEO, so a lot of tension
for Victoria Secret even though they
exceeded analyst estimates. Uh finally,
Kroger also reporting earnings in the
past hour or so. A disappointment for
them, but they're off the lows down
about 1%. A miss on same store sales.
For the grocerers, it's all about
competition. A lot of grab for a lower
and more costconcious consumer. So,
Kroger feeling the pressure this
morning, John.
>> Hey, Danny, thanks for the update. More
from Danny in the next hour. On our
radar this morning, the Senate clearing
the way for the president to continue
attacks on Iran. The Democrat-led effort
to stop US strikes failing a procedural
vote largely along party lines. The
House is expected to vote on the matter
as soon as today. Elsewhere, Goldman
Sachs CEO David Solomon saying he is
keeping a close eye on the private
credit market.
>> We're watching very closely to see if
there's been a little bit too much
aggression, frothiness in those markets.
But fundamentally, when you look at the
underlying credit portfolios,
particularly below investment grade
credit, while there have been a bunch of
idiosyncratic events where there have
been problems, the broad portfolios are
performing reasonably well. Solomon's
comments coming after a warning from the
Apollo CEO Mark Robin earlier this week
that more trouble lies ahead for private
credit. And finally, anthropic resuming
talks with the defense department about
the use of its AI models by the US
military. The discussions aiming to
resolve a feud and potentially bring a
new agreement on the Pentagon's access
to anthropics technology.
>> This is my shocked face. Can I just tell
you this was most the most predictable
thing I could ever imagine just simply
because frankly the defense department
needs anthropics technology. They are
deploying it right now in the conflict
with Iran. They are using that in tandem
with some of the technology from
Palunteer. And oh by the way, Open AI
came to the rescue, right, Sam Alman?
I'll I'll do it for you. Wait a second.
Maybe I won't because I'm getting some
push back. So unclear exactly what that
looks like given the fact that he's
looking to go back and tweak some of the
agreement that he made with the
>> There might be some egos involved here.
>> Never.
>> Yeah. Not good that it spilled out
publicly in quite the way it has over
the last week. I suspect that there will
be less commentary around these
negotiations this time. It seemed like
there was a lot of discussion by other
tech leaders saying tamp it down. No one
should be a supply chain risk. Nobody
should be talking about designations
that hamper the broader tech sector. And
then on the US side, they're saying look
ultimately this is pretty good
technology. We want to be able to use
it. Let's all get along
>> for these AI players. Everything's a
marketing opportunity right now. Haven't
we seen that with Anthropic? Zooming up
the charts for the app being downloaded.
Yeah, I'm looking right now. Anthropic
is now valued at $380 billion. It's on
track to generate annual revenue of $20
billion, which is essentially twice the
run rate of last year. And they're
looking at these downloads that have
increased as people say, you know, they
want to support the cause or they just
want to get to know Claude.
>> If you haven't seen that revenue chart,
it looks like this, like that. It's
pretty incredible.
>> Well, I wonder when both of them try to
IPO later this year. I wonder about
OpenAI, how much Anthropic is stealing
its thunder. Yeah, big IPOs potentially
in the next 12 months or so. Not just
those two, but also SpaceX as well.
That's a lot of supply coming into this
equity market.
>> Yeah, Svita Supermania made this point.
I thought it was a really important one
about how that's going to suck a lot of
interest and frankly a lot of money away
from other asset classes. We've seen a
shrinking pool of public equities for a
long time and now suddenly it's going to
be expanding in a significant fashion.
That will change the dynamic of price
action potentially. Maybe later this
year,
>> potentially it'll be a big year if we
ever get out of Q1.
longest quarter ever. It continues.
Let's talk about crude. Crude up this
morning by close to 3%. WTI at 77, Bren
at around 83. The Iranians with some
interesting push back around the
straight of Murs. Tyrron saying they
have not closed the straight. Not that
you can physically close the straight,
but they're saying it remains open. I'm
just tracking the traffic and the
traffic isn't there and people are
worried about going through the
straight. Whatever anyone says kind of
doesn't matter right now. Let's say
you're about to walk into a room and
someone's saying, "I'm not stopping you.
The door is open." But if you walk
through the room, the uh doorway might
collapse on you and break your head in.
Will you walk through that door? It's
not closed. Right. But this is sort of
what we're looking at right now.
>> I'll be working from home that day. Mark
Pile of Black Rockck with this to say.
The ultimate market impact hinges on how
long the conflict drags on and physical
impairment to energy flows. Mike joins
us now for more. Mike, good to see you.
>> Good to be here.
>> Thank you for being here. Let's talk
about the impact so far. Starting to see
the dominoes fall. Are you worried about
where this is heading?
>> So, listen, I mean, I think the key
question, as you guys have been talking
about all week, is how long this ends up
lasting. You know, right now, I think
we're still in the domain of talking
about a volatility shock to market, not
ultimately something that is a negative
supply shock that's going to flow
through to longerterm inflation, to
longer term growth. The longer this goes
on, the more that comes onto the table.
I think one thing, you know, we're
watching closely is on one hand, I think
you've heard from the president
articulate a relatively narrow set of
aims with respect to this operation. On
the flip side, you know, the conflict is
widened and certain things are just
beyond the control of any one actor. And
it's that push and pull that we're
watching very closely for this question
of volatility shock or something more
durable and more meaningful for global
supply.
>> The last time we had a big energy shock,
you were in government at the time. What
levers are available to the White House
to offset some of the pain if it really
starts to build from here?
>> Well, I think it was really noteworthy
to see the White House, the
administration take a pretty
extraordinary action with respect to DFC
and political risk insurance. Clearly,
they're focused on taking whatever steps
they can, including through things like
insurance tools to, you know, get that
oil flowing through the straits. I mean,
I think some of the kind of more binding
constraints are the ones you talked
about just a moment ago, Lisa. I think
what also this highlights is, you know,
Europe, Asia particularly exposed to
energy shocks of of this kind being net
importers. You know, I worked a lot with
the Europeans back during the early days
of the Russia Ukraine conflict. They've
taken a lot of steps to diversify their
sourcing of energy, LG particular, but
this just highlights that, you know,
even with more diversified sets of
supplies, they're still very vulnerable
to a shock in any one of the major
suppliers.
>> And frankly, it questions whether the US
is willing to export as much LG to
Europe if they also are facing some sort
of supply shock or if they're facing
some kind of cost increase. I just
wonder whether you think that's a lever
that's going to be pulled either with
respect to not exporting LG as much or
potentially deploying the strategic
petroleum reserve.
>> Yeah. So I mean I think that you you
highlight there something really
important which is the difference
between global oil markets on one hand
which are integrated global markets and
LNG markets which are much more
geographically
um delineated and and and disperate. And
I think you're exactly right that
something like the SPR can be a tool
that on the margins mediates that global
market for oil. I think the LG question
is is much more is that a place where we
have the ability as the United States as
a number of private companies to, you
know, really take steps to help manage
the risk of disruption in Europe. Again,
I don't think that's a today question,
but I think if this we're in a world
where this moves from volatility shock
to supply shock, those are the sorts of
things that policy makers and companies
are going to have to think through just
as was the case back in 2022.
>> As an investor, this really was an
example of the market exerting the
maximum amount of pain on the maximum
number of people given the fact that it
has turned a lot of trades, consensus
trades on uh their heads. How are you
reconfiguring your expectations for the
rest of the year? Have you shifted any
of your call about XUS or some of your
expectations about inflation on the
heels of what's transpired?
>> So, I'd say a couple things. One, I
think for now, we remain in the domain
of a volatility shock rather than
something more longlasting and
fundamental. You know, that being said,
to take a step back, you know, I think
my colleagues at the Black Rockck
Investment Institute have been talking
for years about how this is a world
shaped by supply, a world shaped by
supply shocks. And you know literally
just in the past handful of weeks we've
seen markets price supply shocks going
in dramatically different directions. So
you know obviously the story before the
Iran conflict began was about uh the AI
supply shock a positive supply shock to
productivity disinflationary potentially
even deflationary. Since the beginning
of the Iran conflict we've looked at uh
the risk of a much more traditional
negative supply shock squarely on the
eye. What does that mean? It means that
from the perspective of portfolios,
we've talked about this a bunch,
traditional diversifiers, that
traditional stock bond correlation less
reliable and you need to look to
alternative sources of diversification.
Places that aren't reliant on
traditional market betas to deliver that
balance in that diversification
portfolios. You know, things like market
neutral or more alpha oriented
strategies are an important part of the
mix that can do that.
>> Is that another way of saying the bonds
don't work? I mean, I think it's it's a
way of saying that bonds have a role to
play in portfolios. They can deliver
income. That income can be an important
source of diversification and balance,
>> but not mitigation.
>> Yeah. But if you're looking for hedging,
if you're looking for reliable hedging
when supply shocks are going every which
way, you're going to need to bolster
that that that component of your
portfolio to have that hedge. Do private
markets still offer that uh ballast that
sort of offset in terms of
diversification?
>> I mean, listen, we think that to build a
diversified portfolio, you need exposure
to a broad range of market betas in
addition to that hedging kind of source
of alpha. What do I mean by a broad set
of market betas? It means looking to US
equities. It means looking to global
equities. It means in fixed income
looking to a diverse set of sources of
credit. It means looking to private
markets, whether that be uh
infrastructure, credit, equity. Again,
the the the safety for investors today
are building widely diversified
portfolios across a wide range of
different market betas, public, private,
global, US, fixed income equity, and
then also having room for alpha and the
diversification that can provide in a
world where reliable sources aren't
there. How concerned are you that
private markets don't offer the same
diversification that people expected
based on their correlation with the AI
story and based frankly on a real
potential disruption from a supply shock
in the oil market say if that causes
inflation to keep the Fed on the
sidelines.
>> Yeah. I mean what I would say is you
know look to um private market exposures
like in infrastructure. You know,
clearly the buildout around AI and data
centers continues. Clearly the buildout
around needing the energy that's going
to support not just the global economy,
but that capex is also going to be a key
uh driver of global uh economics and
global markets. So I think that just
highlights that, you know, having a
broad set of private markets exposures
in addition to public market exposures,
things like infrastructure, that's got
to be a part of the portfolio mix and
how you're going to build resilience
against a bunch of different type of
shocks coming at us in the years ahead.
>> If you don't mark to market, the
correlation can be whatever you want it
to be, Bremo,
>> unless someone takes money out, which is
part of the problem. And I think people
are figuring this out. Look, you know,
is the lack of liquidity a feature or a
bug? And some people say it's a feature
and some people say it's a bug. And the
question is what the structure of the
fund is and what the assets are
ultimately in the fund and what a lot of
fund managers are saying including Mark
Rowan of Apollo. It depends on the asset
manager as well and what they've
actually done with it.
>> And if you're totally exposed to
software and that's all that's in the
fund, you haven't been a big good risk
manager which is Mark's view what Mark
said earlier this week
>> and they think that there is going to be
a very big disruption. However, if there
is a big disruption in software, it's
not just going to be software. And I
think that that's what a lot of people
are wrapping their heads around. It's
going to be on, you know, news anchors.
So you could just see a bot sitting
here.
>> Keep us out of it, Brao. What's wrong
with you, Mike? Thank you. It's good to
see you. Mike Pal of Black Rock. What's
she talking about? Take it with you.
Mike Pal on portfolio resilience.
>> Make me into a bot.
>> Career risk. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yahara has more. Hey,
Yahara.
>> Hi, John. An oil tanker off the coast of
Iraq suffered an explosion signaling
wider risks to shipping in the Persian
Gulf. Iranian state media reporting an
oil tanker was struck early Thursday by
the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps
Navy. The oil tanker is the largest to
be hit and follows a strike on a
container ship in the street of Hormuz.
Meanwhile, a fresh read on the labor
market just coming in. Challenger job
cuts showing signs of stabilization
totaling just over 48,000 in February.
That's less than half of January's
total, which was the highest for any
January since 2009. Hiring plans also
more than doubling in February from the
prior months. And as you all were
discussing, private credit investors are
boosting short positions in Blue Owl,
betting the stock has more room to fall
after already wiping out nearly onethird
of its value this year. This after Blue
Owl and other major private market firms
were struck with worries about AI
disrupting software plus lending
standards. That's Tup Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yari, thank you. Thank you very much. Up
next, the Bulls versus the Bets.
>> You have five different sectors that are
up double digits here to date. And
again, this isn't 2022 where it's just
energy that's being the big driver here.
You're still seeing industrials,
materials, consumer staples as other big
winners so far this year. Up next, we'll
catch up with Jonathan Krinsky of BTIG
looking for a bounce in the equity
market from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
Equity softer here by a tenth of 1% on
the NASDAQ. We're down by 2 moments ago
and Yhara went through some of the
details. I believe companies last month
announcing 48,000 job cuts in February,
less than half of the prior month's
total. So we saw that big spike and this
is from Challenger by the way. We saw
that big spike in January and in
February it hasn't continued. So just
another sign I wouldn't call this first
tier data. A lot of you wouldn't call it
second tier data, but another sign that
that weakness hasn't followed through as
we approach spring.
>> Yeah, you've seen that drop off in
response to also what we saw last
February, which was the peak of Doge
cuts. There were a lot of government
cuts at the time. It does highlight that
the January bump up in this data that
might have been third or fourth tier
data. At the same time, it did spook the
market at the time was stemming from
Amazon and FedEx and announced
pre-announced layoffs that were pretty
broad-based. You are going to get some
pretty broad-based announcements
potentially. We've got Morgan Stanley,
for example, cutting 3% of its staff as
reported by Bloomberg overnight.
Nonetheless, it isn't speaking to a
broader weakness that appears to be
overly persistent. More views on the
labor market, more data too in about 40
minutes time. We'll get jobless claims
and a conversation with Mike McKe and
the Richmond Fed President Tom Barkin a
little bit later this morning in the
next hour. So look out for that. Under
surveillance this morning, the bulls
versus the bears.
>> You have five different sectors that are
up double digits here to date. And
again, this isn't 2022 where it's just
energy that's being the big driver here.
You're still seeing industrials,
materials, consumer staples as other big
winners so far this year. It's just
challenging in such a concentrated index
where tech has been such a big part of
it to see those stocks look a little bit
weaker. But ultimately, I still think
it's a rotation around AI.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Developments in the Middle East driving
volatility in equity markets. Jonathan
Kinsky of BTI writing, "The S&P has
reclaimed the 6,800 level, creating the
possibility of a false breakdown or bear
trap below that support level. We should
be playing offense more than defense."
Jonathan joins us now for more.
Jonathan, welcome to the show. Looking
forward to hearing from you, sir. What's
important about that 6,800 line of the
sand?
>> So, if we go back to late November,
we've pretty much been in a 200 point
trading range for the S&P between 78
6,800 and 7,000. Um, and on Tuesday, we
aggressively broke below 6,800 as the
Middle East tensions flared up. Uh, but
they we couldn't hold below 6,800. We
actually flipped back above it. And then
yesterday we started to build some
upside followthrough above that. So I
think you know when you when you have
kind of such a widely defined trading
range and you get that breakdown but you
can't hold below it for more than a few
hours um you know that suggests it's
it's a rejection of that lower level and
suggests that buyers were uh you know
more had the upper hand over sellers and
that's kind of that false breakdown or
bare trap that you mentioned. Jonathan,
do you see additional signs at the
sector level in terms of sector
performance that give you a little bit
of encouragement too?
>> Yeah, so what we noticed um this week uh
again on Tuesday, you had crude oil up
about 8% on Tuesday, but the the energy
stocks, the XLE could not make a high
above Monday's high and in fact traded
red on Tuesday. Um oftent times with
commodities and commodity the commodity
equities, the commodity equities tend to
sniff out the real move. um and you get
kind of some divergences and and we tend
to trust the commodity equities in fact
over the commodity. So, you know, crude
is up again this morning. We'll see how
things shake out. But um yeah, that was
an interesting sign. And you also had um
some fear, some you know, the first real
fear we've seen in quite some time in
the VIX market where you had the VIX
curve actually invert by four points.
So, you had a premium of spot VIX over
the second month future. And that sort
of premium tends to uh also indicate a
little bit of capitulation. So um yeah,
definitely some some cross asset signals
that um give us more conviction.
>> Jonathan, are people done beating up the
airlines? It seems like they can't catch
a break and it seems like they were
penalized with a double whammy of both
higher gas prices as well as fears
around travel.
>> Yeah, I mean look, they were actually
doing pretty well a few weeks ago. um
kind of around around uh you know some
of the major airlines were actually
above their co pre-COVID highs um at 52
week highs. So they've they've seen a
little pullback here coincident uh with
the the move higher in crude oil but um
yeah the airlines at least the majors
are into what we would consider decent
support and yeah it wouldn't take much
you know if you get a little resolution
and a pullback in crude I think airlines
are in a decent spot. Um, but I I don't
think you have to get the the pullback
in crude. I think um, you know, they
they can they can kind of hold their
own, but that would definitely be a nice
tailwind.
>> Jonathan, we had a couple of guests on
so far this morning who said that when
the market starts to rally again, it's
not an if, it's a when. They are
bullish. It will have a different tone
than earlier in the year. It will be the
Magnificent 7 leading the charge while
the broadening out trade takes a
breather. Do you agree with that?
So I think what we're seeing right now
is a bit of FIFO or first in first out
namely with the software names. You know
they've actually been leading the last
couple at least the last week week and a
half. Um and obviously those were the
the parts that was the part of the
market that saw the biggest draw down
over the last couple months. So I think
that is is in the near term that's
accurate. Additionally the mag seven I
would agree with that as well. We're
seeing, you know, some signs of there.
And Microsoft obviously is is in both
camps, right? It's Mag 7 and software.
So, we're seeing some signs of that. We
think that the turn in small cap or
value versus mega cap or growth is
actually a real turn over the next uh
you know, let's call it 12 to 18 months.
So I think you know in the in the short
term I think some of the worst parts of
the market are outperforming but I think
as we look ahead to the rest of the year
I think we probably want to shift back
to that that rotation we've seen in uh
parts of the market like small cap and
value uh and even even global equities
um relative to US equities. So all those
things that were working um over the
last few months I I I think they
continue to work but we just have to get
through this kind of tactical period
first. One dimension, one flavor of that
story, Jonathan, has been the
discretionary trade. Lisa alluded to it
with the airlines. I remember a note
from you about a month ago talking about
select restaurant names starting to
perform. Cara had a great month last
month. Are you seeing more of that
starting to emerge? Can you get behind
the discretionary trade?
>> Yeah, I mean, look, discretionary is
often a mixed bag and and right now it's
no no different. It's, you know, there
are there's a lot of dispersion in the
in the sector. Um the restaurants I
would say have kind of stalled out a
little bit. They they certainly haven't
broken the progress they made um you
know earlier in the year but uh you kind
of have to take it name by name but I
think broadly the discretionary sector
is is in a decent spot right now. um you
know the the eco weight discretionary
sector was doing a bit better earlier
but now um you know you have mag 7 again
which is part of sorry Amazon which is
part of mag 7 which is doing better um
and that's going to help the cap
weighted discretionary sector
>> Jonathan good to see you sir Jonathan
Kinsky there of BTI at the index level
he's looking for a balance from here the
conditions are in place we've heard that
from BTI we heard it from counter early
this morning as well up next we'll catch
up with Tom Kennedy of JP Morgan Asset
Management Jed Dorshimer of William
Blair Richmond Fed President Tom Bark
and Nita Richardson of ADP. The third
hour of Blimp Surveillance up next.
>> My issue coming into the year is risk
was mispriced.
>> There is no base case.
>> We continue to cycle through these
different existential fears.
>> We're at the mercy of headlines.
>> There is serious correction risk.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh. Lisa Abramowitz and
Ann Marie Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And your scores look like this. We're
negative 210 of 1% on the S&P down a
similar amount on the NASDAQ. The
Russell down by.7. In the commodity
market, an update on crude for you. Bren
and WTI higher by 2 to 3%. WTI pushing
7725. Brent crude up to 8361.
The next stop for this conversation will
be on the economic data. That data is
about 30 minutes away. Jobless claims,
the last taste of the labor market
before we get the next main course,
which is on payrolls Friday, just 24
hours away.
>> Yeah. And so far, you mentioned the ISM
services that we got yesterday. So far,
the data has been pretty good, right?
And I think that this is really
important because this is the reason why
you do see the impulse to buy the dip,
why you do hear this bullishness on Wall
Street, even amid concerns about an oil
price shock. ISM came in services came
in at the highest level since 2022. ADP
figures the highest figure since in 7
months. Meanwhile, we just got this
question of challenger job cuts. Tier 4
data. Whatever. Either way, it shows a
decline in the number of job cuts
announced. You pour that with
potentially jobless claims that we get
in about a half an hour time. Same
trend. Is that good news or bad news for
a market that's looking for that
momentum to continue?
>> I think good news right now is good
news.
>> 100%. If you get bad news on the data
side and you're worried about what's
developing in the Middle East, bad news
for the economy with crude pushing high
at the same time is a toxic mix. The Fed
is caught in between. Not good. That's
not what you want to see in the data
right now. I think it's encouraging.
You're seeing better signs.
>> I think that you're absolutely correct
for risk assets. I think the question is
that bond markets are getting buffeted
by both the oil shock that is
potentially inflationary plus an economy
that can can continue to muddle through
even with that price shock. So
potentially can uh just simply deal with
it and cause prices to increase just a
little bit. So that I think is the
concern building on the bond space not
necessarily infecting frankly this we
want to see the momentum continue that's
going to be the bulk for a lot of risk
assets.
>> So the bulls are out they're feeling
confident. We spoke to Jonathan Kinsky
of BTIG thinks we're in store for a
bounce here. Eric Johnson of Caner said
the same thing. Heard it from Goldman
yesterday. Heard it from Citadel. You
keep hearing it on the equity side that
the conditions are in place for a
bounce. How many times have we talked
about this through the week? But you
speak to the experts who are focused on
the Middle East. They're concerned. We
spoke to Victoria Coats last hour
concerned about what's happening in the
Middle East. We've spoken to energy
guest after energy guest who thinks
we're only a few days away from getting
too close to storage capacity, which
would lead some of these big producers
to shutting production even more. And if
that happens, if that happens, and it's
an if at this point, but if that
happens, then this crude move is not
over.
>> So, you've got two ideas here. On one
hand, you've got people who are
analyzing the geopolitics saying this
could get really scary really quickly.
And if you look at the supply demand
dynamic, you could see a real backup in
terms of the supplies leading to demand
to outstrip supply and oil prices to
rise. And you see other people saying,
well, look, you have leverage and it was
blown blown out and you've got trades
and they were unwound. And so now you've
got a fertile ground where you don't
necessarily have the same kind of froth.
So buy. And those two things are in
conflict.
>> Two different hats and two different
perspectives, that's for sure. Equity
futures right now turning just slightly
lower, still around 2% away from
all-time highs. We're negative by 210 of
1% on S&P 500 futures. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Tom Kennedy of
JP Morgan Asset Management as investors
watch for an off-ramp in Iran. Jed
Dorshimer of William Blair pushing back
on the data center cost narrative and
the Richmond Fed President Tom Barkin as
the central bank weighs new inflation
risks. We begin this out with stocks
lower and crude pushing higher. Tom
Kennedy of JP Morgan Asset Management
writing, "Energy is the first order
world effect of the Iranian conflict.
The second is the tightening in
financial conditions." Tom joins us now
for more. Tom, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Your assessment of the risks that are
building in the Middle East. What is it?
>> Yeah, I think you guys are setting me up
right. Energy has the first order effect
here. Um the headline that gets passed
around the most, 20 to 30% of the
world's oil passes through the straight.
Can look at that either way, but there's
massive concentration in where that oil
is actually going. The vast majority is
going towards Asia. So this is in the
energy effect mostly an Asia problem. So
far about 50% of China's oil passes
through the straight about 2/3 from uh
South Korea. So so far energy effect
mostly an Asia problem. Financial
conditions become the second order
effect and so far not really that big of
a deal. Um I know we're talking that
that much but when you look at a
financial conditions index which is what
are equities, bonds, the dollar doing I
don't think this is really going to
change the outlook all that much. So it
comes back to the point you guys are
making why the bulls can feel really
optimistic here. The the data in America
looks pretty good and that energy impact
so far not that big of a deal but to
your point big if.
>> Do you feel optimistic?
>> Yeah I think we should be again JP
Morgan amazing data when you look at the
Chase consumer they're spending solid
that unrelenting K-shaped economy
presses. We could talk about that and at
our retail sales uh locations. So in
asset management, we own 25 million
square feet of retail. Foot traffic is
up, spending is up, the consumer looks
pretty solid. So walking into retail
sales, like we should feel pretty good.
>> How much is this a sugar high from the
tax refunds? And how much is this
fundamental strengthening in consumer
sentiment and frankly the labor
backdrop?
>> There's been a disconnect between
consumer confidence and spending for for
a long time now. Um the way people are
feeling and the way they're acting are
completely different. I mean, watch what
people do, not what that what they say
is, I think, a really good mantra in
this market. Um, spending in our Chase
customer data is up almost 4%
year-over-year. That's above inflation.
Um, now it is K-shaped. The the halves
are spending way more than the have
nots. So, there's problems in there. But
when you start to think about how people
are feeling, I'm just been discounting
that for a while. Those those surveys
are not really all that helpful. Um, and
I don't necessarily think it's a sugar
high. I think the tax benefits from the
one big beautiful bill are still ahead
of us for the most part.
>> So it leads to this question. If the Fed
is not incentivized to cut rates because
of oil prices as well as pretty strong
data, at what point does that become a
real headwind to certain more sensitive
areas of the market, whether it's
private credit and some of what we're
seeing there, whether it's real estate
and this question about how much we
could get mortgage rates down. How are
you kind of balancing those two those
two ideas? Yeah, amid this framing you
guys have which I really like is we have
the geopolitical risk but a strong
economy. I think as you start to move
through this now you have to say what
have we learned? I think we've learned
the dollar is still the reserve currency
that the dollar strength is the only
unanimous thing across the globe. But
bonds aren't diversifying you in this
scenario. So you can look at it in two
ways. Historically when you get an oil
shock, yeah, this is what bonds do. But
in big geopolitical events where maybe
there's major conflict, bonds usually
rally. So which conflict is this? That's
your if, John. We just don't know yet.
But so far, the market is acting as if
this is mostly just an energy shock.
We'll see. But will bonds diversify you?
And I just don't think that that's
that's the real anchor we can look at
because the Fed is not going to be able
to do what they usually do. We just step
in and cut. So, we're in a new era of
diversification. I think real assets are
the game. And when you start to look
across Wall Street, what are what are
firms doing? Especially JP Morgan. This
focus on real assets as the new piece of
the the portfolio that
>> talk to us about that a little bit more.
When you see real assets, what do you
mean?
>> Yeah. Infrastructure has gotten all the
spotlight, but I think it is going to
need to broaden. Infrastructure is a
relatively small piece of the global
supply of alternatives, and commercial
real estate is the biggest place. It's a
great entry point. You've seen 20 to 25%
repricing in these assets. So, if I want
to go build an office building, it's
going to cost me 25% more than just
buying the one that's right there. This
is an environment that generally leads
to appreciation. This reset is 6 months
behind us. Probably got five, 10 years
to go. How immune is that to AI
disruption?
>> It's one of the more immune asset
classes. It's not immune, but more
immune. Why, John? You got to live
somewhere. Whether it's a an AI agentic
bot that's that's doing your job or not,
don't think it's possible, but there are
levers that can be pulled, but you got
to live somewhere. You got to go
somewhere. So, I think this becomes an
asset class that can grow with nominal
inflation in a higher inflation world
and has some immunity to AI, but this is
hours of combo. There's still lots of uh
shades of gray in there.
>> Well, yeah. And actually, not to go down
a rabbit hole into spend an hour in five
minutes, but I am curious about office
space in particular. I mean, do we need
to actually go to the office if a bot's
doing our job and we're just supposed to
stay home and collect UBI?
>> I think this is one of why Wall Street
is a little bit more comfortable with
the software situation or at least maybe
the bulls are.
>> Yeah,
>> job openings for software are picking
up. It's against the thesis that AI is
taking your job. So like you know
generative AI is still years away and
what that application could look like.
At the moment job opening is picking up.
Rental office space in San Francisco
which you would think is the most AI
sensitive is booming. We are seeing
massive leasing great pricing. The
bottom is in there. Again two data
points that are just against this notion
that AI and software are going to AI is
going to take over the software world.
>> Where is commercial property? Where does
it look most attractive to you? Because
there's a question about increasingly
with technology, where do you want to
be? Maybe closest to data centers, not
necessarily closest to big cities. Maybe
it has to do with tax policy. I mean,
exactly. How do you look
>> at how that's shifted?
>> Office two two places. Office has hit
the most
>> aggressive repricing and I think the
bottom is in. Back to work is here. And
now actually tech companies moving back
to the office is interesting. So I
probably think in the next 1 to 3 years
office will perform the best. But the
bigger theme is onshoring in the way
we're going to apply artificial
intelligence. The critical onshoring
that's happening is means robotics,
aerospace and defense, uh pharmaceutical
production, these critical industries
coming back. The more geopolitical risk
you have, you just keep betting on this
theme. But America just does not have
this kind of space. An aerospace and
defense company needs a commercial real
estate property that has a lot of power
and power is not evenly distributed. And
we have not built any supply like this
for 20 years. So this is the the real
durable theme. The industrial sector is
being re
>> Can you describe the power opportunity
that's still available?
>> So the power opportunity looks like an
aerospace or robotics company that walks
into an industrial complex and says I
need 4,000 to 8,000 amps of power in
your house. John, you have like 100
amps. So huge. But a logistics center
has less than 2,000 amps. So now I need
high power. But I also need to be in a
location where really smart people want
to work. So, they don't want to work in
a big rural place. They want to work
near Southern California or maybe parts
of the south. But mapping where is the
power and where do those very smart
people want to work? There's there's not
a lot of places that they can be.
>> Tom, it's good to see you. It always is.
Thanks for dropping by, sir. Thank you.
Tom Kennedy there of JP Morgan Asset
Management with some data that goes
against the narrative the popular
narrative of the past few weeks.
>> Yeah. That no one's going to go to the
office because they're not actually
employed anymore. Actually, hiring is
Yeah. software hiring is actually
increasing and that you're seeing
increasing interest for office space. I
mean, to me, this really does uh present
a fascinating equation. I'm actually
right now Googling regions that have
power centers near urban areas to sort
of track where Tom is investing because
I think that's a really interesting.
>> I'm just pleased that Tom doesn't
believe we can be replaced by bots. So,
that's encouraging, right?
>> This is actually the most optimistic
conversation.
>> Tom, you're welcome back. Well done.
Well played. Let's give you an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Joining us now for more, here's
Yahara. Hey, Yahara. Hi, John. Iranian
officials saying attacks across the
Middle East will intensify. The UAE
saying it intercepted
125 drones and six ballistic missiles
today. While Azarbaijan threatening to
hit back after saying two Iranian drones
struck its territory. In the Persian
Gulf, an oil tanker suffered an
explosion with the IRGC claiming
responsibility.
Meanwhile, on that note, Saudi Arabia is
racing to reroute its crude exports as
the Iran war effectively closes the
street of Hormuse. To keep markets
moving, Aramco Aramco is pushing more
supply through its east to west
pipeline, sending oil from the Gulf
Coast across the kingdom to Red Sea
ports. That's providing a strategic
cushion to bypass the blockade and
maintain steady exports to global
markets. and Black Rockck slashing the
value of a private loan to zero. Its
roughly $25 million loan to Infinite
Commerce Holdings is now worthless just
months after assessing it at 100 cents
on the dollar. The write-off adds to
mounting concerns in the private credit
market. Black Rockck declined to comment
while representatives for Infinite
Commerce were not immediately available.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. There goes another
one. It's just data point after data
point, isn't it? The news flow for that
sector is not good right now.
>> You just wonder at what point do some of
these write downs get reflected in
broader marks for some of the assets on
the books. At what point do people get
confidence that the transparency they're
getting is accurate based on where you
could actually sell an asset?
>> Not a ton of confidence right now.
That's for sure. Up next on the program,
the morning calls plus Jed Dorshimer of
William Blair with a contrarian take on
data center costs. Looking forward to
this conversation in just a moment from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
In the short term, there's clearly, you
know, risks around uh around Iran,
around oil that are very real. But I
think any dip that comes from that I
think will be a viable uh a very viable
dip. When you've had strong earnings
growth, you've had a strong economy and
the Fed is not fighting it. That has
been incredibly powerful. If we look
over the course of the year that we are
going to have that backdrop continuing
around earnings growth and economic
growth.
>> That was Eric Johnson of Canford share
bullish on the economy and looking for a
bounce in this equity market. And as
we've said repeatedly throughout this
morning, he's not alone. And we heard
from Jonathan Kinsky of BTIG saying the
same thing. We've seen comments from
Oppenheimer over at Goldman. We've seen
the same comments coming out of Citadel.
And here we are. Equities following
yesterday's bounce down just a bit.
We're down by 210 of 1% on the S&P. On
the NASDAQ, we're down by 0.3.
>> And now it's about the data and then
whether we have an economic trajectory
in the United States that gets behind
this bullish sentiment that seems to be
driven by the fact that the underlying
economy is doing fine. We saw that in a
lot of the earnings. We saw that in the
ISM services. We saw that in the
challenge of job cuts with a downside
surprise in the right direction as you
like to say and it really points to
things can keep chugging along.
>> We see in the data and largely over the
last few days that's being reflected in
bond yields as well. It's not just a
crude story. It's not just an energy
story. The data has been better. Yields
are higher for a fourth consecutive
session up by three basis points. The
10-year at 41286. The energy story looks
like this for Brent and for WTI still
struggling to take out the highs of the
week. 85 just 2 days ago 8340. Crude is
higher by more than 2%. WTI up by three.
That's the price action. Let's get you
some morning calls with one stock in
Focus Broadcom. First up, City raising
its price target to 475, noting easing
margin and competition concerns. Your
second call from JP Morgan raising its
price target to 500, seeing continued
upside in its AI semiconductor segment.
The stock is still flying. And finally,
Bank of America cutting its price target
to 450, citing lower sector multiples.
That's the latest on Broadcom. A sticker
with tech. Executives from Hyperscalers
and artificial intelligence firms
signing a White House pledge to cover
electricity bills for data center
projects. Jed Dorshimer of William Blair
writing, "The media has it backwards.
Data centers won't push up pricing. They
will actually push down pricing." Jed
joins us now for more. Jed, welcome.
I've been looking forward to this
conversation. I want to give you some
time just to explain why you believe
that's the case.
>> Well, thanks for having me. Um, we're
actually out with our uh racks and
stacks, which is our monthly uh data
center uh and power index uh today. So,
lot of data, a lot of things to talk
about. And I think, you know, on the
heels of the pledge from the White House
um uh from the tech companies, if you
just think about it, what the utilities
are going to get is um subsidized
generation. Um and so is that going to
drive up or down pricing? Uh I think I
would say it it obviously would drive
down. Um and so I think there's a fear
narrative around data centers. Uh you
know, not in my backyard type of
phenomenon. uh but that is is if we look
at what is driving up prices and we've
written about this in our report pain at
the plug uh and if you look at PGM which
is the most notable RTO uh experiencing
that that's not a function of data
centers that are driving that up
>> Jed how much is this assuming a really
rapid buildout of some of the power
centers that a lot of big tech names are
are looking to engage with in other
words is there a time mismatch here that
until they get those power plants up and
running, they will be sucking demand
away from utilities.
>> I'm not so sure that that is true
actually. I mean, when we in our, you
know, when uh I I mean the data shows
that there is a rapid increase, a surge
if you will, of gas turbines uh to
provide uh base load power. Uh, and so,
you know, I'm not sure that that is a
true statement in terms of that they're
going to be um sucking the the power
from uh the the rape base or
constituents. I think that is a fear
narrative that's being driven, but I
don't think that's supported by the the
data that we're that we are seeing. So
how do you explain the fact that utility
bills have been going up so
significantly in particular power bills
in a lot of locations particularly those
closer to a lot of these uh AI centers
>> such as where
>> in Texas for example
>> so in Texas which does have uh you know
I don't think that you're seeing AI data
centers that are um directly driving up
uh pricing in Texas uh specifically
Um so I think what you are seeing is is
you're seeing certainly a migration
shift uh to Texas in terms of population
increase and you're seeing you know a
very favorable uh industrial permitting
and uh industry um which is obviously
increasing load of which you know data
centers are part of that where you're
seeing the highest uh increase in
electricity pricing in the US. Um, I
mean, I live in Massachusetts. Uh, my
electricity prices are through the roof.
Connecticut, New York, uh, California,
Illinois. Um, you know, you're you're
seeing very high, uh, pricing there and
you're not seeing data centers.
>> So, what do you think is driving it
then?
>> I think the, um, so I think it's it
starts to get into, you know, when you
start digging into it, what you'll see
is transmission. Um most of what we talk
about is on the generation or the
capacity side and a lot of these markets
have been deregulated for the uh uh
capacity but are not deregulated for
transmission and distribution. And the
more um renewables that you're going to
have, you're going to stress the system
over a certain percentage. And as that
variability ticks up, we've found that
most RTO's that have over 10% of
variable assets um that the generation
will actually be usurped by the um
variability costs and that's requiring
more transmission. And so when you look
at um you know those states with very
high RPS uh subsidies, you're actually
seeing the highest uh power pricing. Now
some will push back and say hey
causation is not correlation and that's
fair. I think some of this is being
figured out and I obviously there's
going to be some impact in terms of
adding data centers which do act like a
semifab or a steel mill uh etc. Um but
if you now have your tech firms that
have all made a pledge that they're
going to bring their own capacity and
they're also going to be responsible for
uh interconnects. uh that's a huge
underwritten subsidy for that power
which should lead to lower prices not
higher prices.
>> So Jed as you explained this runs
contrary to the popular narrative you
hear so much of on programs like this as
you and the team identify these data
points. What do you believe the
investment opportunity is? Well, I think
the obvious one is you need to have GE
Vernova as a core holding within your
portfolio. And the most push back that
we get on that one is, oh, the stocks
run, you know, we picked it up at I I
think it was um around $200 per share
and it's now at $830 per share, but
you're continuing to see we haven't even
seen all of the maintenance uh and the
service side of the business that flows
into the into the model. So, we still
continue to believe that there's upside
to that one. um on the nuclear side BWX
technology or uh centrist on shoring up
the supply chain. So anything that's
base load what we are seeing is the
economy in the US is shifting from a
largely service focused or highly optim
optimized energy efficient economy that
if we move to a multipolar uh economic
system globally with that's going to
require reshoring that requires a lot
more power and in specifically base load
not surge or peak so that's benefiting
uh that's going to benefit NA gas coal
hydroelectric
um geothermal
uh in and so and and I might be I um
missing one or two but that's really the
driver here. So you're seeing the the
contribution of base load being valued
more than that or surge peak.
>> Interesting. Jed, this was insightful.
Let's do it again soon. Jed Dorshimer
there of William Blair. That last word
there on G Venova. We caught up with
Scott Strrazik back in Davos at the
World Economic Forum. He seemed happy
and there's a good reason for that. The
stock is up again by 29% so far this
year.
>> Yeah, I was going to say that they've
been the beneficiary and they are being
rewarded in the equity market. Look, I
mean, I think that the point that he's
making is fascinating, which is that if
anything, the uh the hyperscalers and
data centers aren't exactly bleeding
energy from the system. They're
contributing energy plants to the
system. How this shakes out the numbers
and then also in the politics shall be
remain to be seen.
>> Yeah, it's going to be a big political
story still for the next 12 months.
>> And there have been a lot of studies.
I've been quickly like trying to find
all of them going both directions,
right? So I mean this is sort of an
interesting push back and you could feel
the emotion because there have been a
lot of studies that have been put out
about how much utility bills have gone
up over the past four years and how much
this has driven or in tandem with the AI
build
>> and the green lobby does not want you to
believe that there's a contribution
coming from that to that. We've seen
that play out in the UK as well.
>> Yeah, there's a lot of mixed messages
coming from this and a lot of mixed
messaging which makes it difficult.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with the
Richmond Fed President Tom Barkin as
inflation concerns continue to grow.
He'll catch up with Mike McKe in just a
moment. From New York City, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
So, in just a few moments, we've got
some economic data, jobless claims, the
next look at the labor market. We'll get
to that data when it crosses in about 15
seconds time. Before we get there, let's
turn to the price action together. We
are negative today. We're down by about
a quarter of 1% this morning. negative a
third on the NASDAQ and down by 8/10 on
the Russell. As you know, the situation
incredibly fluid and things can change
from minute to minute given developments
in the Middle East and elsewhere. In the
bond market, yields have been drifting
higher for four consecutive days. The
data has been better. It's been okay.
We've seen that in the ISM. We've seen
it in other data points, too. Yields are
higher by three basis points. 10's at
413. Let's turn to the data. Jobless
claims coming in at a nice 213 against
an estimate of 215 and the previous
number of 212. Lisa, jobless claims and
continuing claims speak to the same
thing we've been talking about for quite
a while. Low higher, low fire. Low fire
captured in jobless claims, initial
claims being very low. Low higher
captured in some very sticky high
continuing claims.
>> Yeah. And if you take a look at the
initial claims 4-week moving average, it
actually has gone lower from 220,000 in
the week before to 215,000 essentially
with this latest data. So highlighting
that, but you're right, continuing
claims you've got to pay attention to
because it actually kicked upward to 18
uh to 1.868
million, up from 1.82 million. a
question here about whether that means
that people aren't hiring, whether
that's the issue, whether this is just a
snafu tied to weather or some other
disruption, or whether this really does
highlight that maybe initial jobless
claims don't really show the pain that
people are experiencing under the
surface.
>> This labor market has been frozen for
quite a while. And this data this
morning speaks to the same thing. It's
the right kind of downside surprise on
initial claims and it's the wrong kind
of upside surprise on continuing claims.
Mike McKe standing by. He's having a
look at the data and he's got a special
guest for us as well. Good morning,
Mike.
Good morning, John. Well, claims are not
the only number out this morning that
matters. We're also looking at import
prices for the month of January. On a
month-over-month basis, they're up
2/10en of a percent after a uh decline
in the prior month. And we're also
seeing ex petroleum up 4/10. That puts
kind of a lie to the idea that
foreigners are absorbing the tariffs
because the prices should go down if
that's the case. Also, productivity up
2.8% 8% which sounds good except it was
uh up by 5.2% in the third quarter. So
not as great a news as perhaps people
had hoped. Let's get a read on how the
economy is doing. Now you mentioned a
special guest and indeed we do have one
Tom Barkin uh president of the Richmond
Fed. were here at the Richmond Fed with
him and I know you haven't had a chance
to really look at these numbers but uh
in general the lowf fire low hire
economy and the tariff affected economy
seem to be about what they have been
well it's always good to come on right
after a bunch of data comes out but I I
wouldn't be as negative on the
productivity as you just were 2.8% 8% on
a last 10 or 20 or 30 year basis is a is
a really good number and I think um we
are seeing uh companies invest in
productivity and deliver it some of that
technology uh AI but I think a lot of it
is you were caught short workers three
years ago you invested in new processes
new staffing models automation and
people are seeing the results today
>> and that holds down inflation
>> uh it does hold down inflation and it
allows people to maintain margins at
times when their input costs might be
might be coming up Well, input costs are
probably going up for people who use
petroleum. So, I want to start there
with obviously um the Iran war just
started, but what's your gut feel about
how that's going to impact prices and
the economy?
>> Don't have any sense on how long it's
going to take uh or what the
implications are going to be. Obviously,
you watch oil prices. Um, while the US
is no longer a net importer, it's still
the case that the price at the pump
matters a lot uh in terms of sentiment,
in terms of crowding out other spending.
And so I'm just watching prices at the
pump. They've jumped up uh over the last
week. You can see that uh when you drive
around, but of course, no one knows
whether this is going to be short-term
or long-term. And so we'll just see
where it goes.
>> Well, back in the 1970s, we had the oil
price shock and we had gas lines and
people were miserable at having to pay
all this money. And so the Fed eased
into that. uh that turned out to be a
mistake. Does this put on hold ideas for
the time being of continuing to cut
rates?
>> Well, I think we'll go meeting by
meeting and we'll see what we see uh
when we get there. Um you know, gas
prices obviously uh if they're up, that
is inflationary textbook uh monetary
policy would be you look through a
short-term shock, but you don't look
through a long-term shock. And I think
that's a lot of the assessment people
are going to have to make. the open
market committee before the Iran war
started. Basically, the views seem to be
that we're at peak tariffs now and uh
inflation will start to come down in the
latter half of the year. But you throw
this into the equation. Where would you
put yourself in terms of thinking about
the progression of inflation and when
you might have enough information to
decide whether a cut is worthwhile or
not?
>> Well, we'll have to see how it evolves.
If you go back to the fall, um the
conversations I have with businesses
suggest to me that they believe their
pricing power is very limited. Um
consumers are exhausted by inflation,
affordability. Um people are pushing
back, whether that be not purchasing or
private label or uh trading down to
lower price retailers or repairing
rather than replacing. And so in the
conversations you have, you do have a
sense that we're on the back side of
this inflationary period. We'll head
back to normal. Um, in the numbers in
the fall, uh, absent the government
shutdown, we're saying much the same
thing. I will say over the last month
and with the PCE numbers that we're
expecting next week, you've got a couple
months of relatively high inflation.
That certainly puts pause to any
conclusion that we're done uh, you know,
fighting this, but we'll we'll see where
we go.
>> Well, slicing the business leaders are
telling you a little more closely. They
know consumers are price sensitive and
they're worried about that. But are they
also in a situation where they've had to
absorb too much and if we see more price
increases of inputs, they're going to
have to raise prices.
>> Well, that's where we come back to
productivity as being so key to this
whole story because most every business
I talked to last April that got tariffs
was going to pass it on. It was just
clear and you know uh they needed to
maintain margins, the consumer was going
to have to take it. And when they
experimented with that, they got a lot
of push back and so uh prices didn't
increase the way that a lot of those
folks expected. Now their margins have
been very steady and so corporate
margins are quite healthy. Um earnings
were up I think 13% fourth quarter
year-over-year and that's because
productivity has allowed people to
absorb these hits without you know uh
having affect margins and having to pass
it on fully in prices. And when you
start seeing good productivity numbers
over and over and over again, that gives
you some hope that can continue.
>> What are you hearing from businesses
about the other side of your mandate,
employment? Obviously, we're seeing low
hire, low fire continue.
>> Yeah, I I have to say, um, the
businesses I talked to when they
describe the labor market, they describe
it as pretty open. Uh, maybe even loose.
Availability is high, turnover is low.
Um uh I I I uh I was with a bunch of
poultry processors on the Eastern Shore
uh who told me that even after losing uh
workers, you know, to temporary
protected status, they've been able to
replace them relatively um relatively
easily. And if you can replace poultry
workers, I think you've got a reasonably
open job market. And of course, going
back to the fall, that's what we saw as
unemployment was ticking up. I I will
say the last couple months of employment
data has been, you know, reassuring. As
you've seen, the unemployment rate came
down. Jobless claims have stayed uh low.
And so you still hear a relatively loose
labor market. You still hear people not
hiring but not firing. And uh uh but the
numbers are even better than than I
think what you hear.
>> Well, it sounds like you think at this
point the risks to inflation and to
employment are roughly balanced.
>> Yeah. If you go back to the fall, I
think a lot was behind our moves was the
sense that the risk to the labor market
were up while the risk to inflation were
down. The data that's come in over the
last couple uh months would I think
suggest uh it's moved in the other
direction.
>> Well, you mentioned that uh you know
you're going to get probably an elevated
PCE reading coming up. Uh at this point,
is monetary policy set at a place where
it can help you bring down inflation? Uh
or or is it even too tight? Where is it
on the scale?
>> Well, I I expect we're still, you know,
modestly restrictive and that should
help as we try to grind out the last uh
mile here, but again, we'll have to see.
I definitely take note of the continued
strength in demand. And so, I don't
think we're highly restrictive. If if
you were highly restrictive, you'd see a
lot more impact on demand, which has
stayed, you know, very healthy. I was uh
reflecting it was four years ago that we
first started increasing interest rates
in March of uh 22 and if you had
predicted then that we would have demand
growth of the sort we've had over the
last four years uh you would have been a
severe outlier.
>> Uh let's talk about your new boss who's
coming in in theory. Uh I guess Kevin
Worsh's nomination's finally gone up to
Capitol Hill. Uh a lot of people think
the Fed chair can walk in and just
change interest rates, but they don't.
You all have a vote and uh he's his his
basic power is in persuasion. How do you
think he'll do? How do you think the
dynamics play out in when somebody new
comes into the building like that?
>> Well, it'll be a new experience for me,
too, since Jay was in the building when
I started eight years ago. Uh, I mean, I
like and respect Kevin and I trust he'll
do a good job and I'm looking forward to
uh working with him. Um, you have a lot
of uh smart, opinionated people uh in
the room and so you'll want to work with
those folks. I think there's also a lot
of respect uh for the chair and what the
chair does um to take a lot of the
visible uh noise that happens from
markets and um uh the press and others.
And so I I think we'll uh I look forward
to working with him. We'll see where we
go. He makes uh the case for a number of
changes at the Fed. One of which would
be a smaller balance sheet. Where do you
come down on that?
>> I mean I instinctively I like the idea
of the Fed having a smaller footprint in
financial markets. I think subject to us
still being able to operate monetary
policy uh control rates well and subject
to uh not having severe adverse
reactions in the markets. But it's a
instinctively it's an attractive idea to
if we can find a way to to make it work
in the context of the rest of what we're
trying to do. He's also said he'd like
to uh have a little bit less
conversation from uh Fed officials and
maybe more coordinated uh interactions
with the public. Uh what do you think
about that? Uh maybe asking you not to
speak as much.
>> Well, that would give me some more time,
so I'd be happy with that. No. Uh what I
try to do in my outreach is very very
district oriented. And so I was in
Martinsburg, West Virginia yesterday. I
was in uh DC the day before. I was in
Harford County, Maryland last Thursday.
I was in Northern Virginia on Tuesday. I
was in Baltimore on Wednesday. And in
each of those places, um I'm actually
not, you know, talking to you. I'm
talking to chambers of commerce and
Rotary clubs and people who are
interested in what's happening in the
economy. And I think there's real value
uh to being in front of these folks and
uh putting a face on the Fed. The design
of the Fed was a regional design from
the start. And I think part of it was uh
people wanted to trust uh and understand
the people who are making these
important decisions and also to feel
listened to and I take a lot of pride in
how much interaction and engagement I
have across my you know five states and
District of Columbia and I I hope to
continue doing that but to me it's not
and you know this because we've talked a
lot before I'm not trying to talk about
how many rate cuts I have in my SCP for
the next nine months. I'm trying to talk
about here's how I see the economy and
ask them how are you seeing the economy.
I think I get valuable insight that way.
>> One last question. Uh would you like to
see Jay Pal stay on as a Fed governor
after his term as chair is up?
>> Uh I like Jay a ton. I think he's done a
spectacular job and I want Jay to do
absolutely the best thing for Jay.
>> Okay, Tom Barkin. Thank you very much.
The president of the Richmond Fed will
send it back to you.
>> Mike McKe. Thank you, sir. And that's a
top tip for anyone that gets asked that
by Mike McKe anytime soon. just repeat
what Tom Bach had just said. I want
what's best for Jack.
>> So, not going to answer, but I think it
was a great answer. Frankly, honestly,
what he said was actually uh parsing
through the vagaries that the Fed is
dealing with quite well, talking about
how he still sees modestly restrictive
policy, not exactly accommodative or
neutral. And then he did say that
companies were having trouble passing
along pricing, but that the recent
inflationary data does give them pause.
So, sort of the dual mandate kind of
balanced right now. He seems like he's
kind of uh want to be waiting on the
sidelines for more
>> on inflation, on the energy shock. It
keeps going back to the same thing, the
calendar. It depends how long this goes
on for. If it's a short-term shock, the
textbook says, his words, look through
it. If it's longer, the textbook says
something else. How much longer is it
going to be?
>> Yeah. And this we don't know. And that I
think is going to be a really important
driver. And frankly, not just for the
Federal Reserve, but for the entire
market to reassess exactly what that
impact is. notable to me uh that that
President Barkin uh Richard Fed
President Barkin was talking about how
it really matters how much oil prices
are for sentiment for consumer sentiment
and that that will be potentially a
disinflationary force in terms of their
ability to keep on going out and and
buying things.
>> Michael McKe catching up with the
Richmond Fed President Tom Barkin there
just moments ago. Let's keep an update
on stories worldwide this morning with
your Bloomberg brief. Yhara has more.
Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. Recapping the data we got
earlier. jobless claims for last week
coming in at 213,000
a nearly identical figure to the
previous week and an encouraging sign
the labor market could be stabilizing.
Continuing claims though nudged up to
1.87 million about 35,000 higher than
the week prior. Apple rolling out a new
lowcost version of its MacBook laptop
unveiling a $599
13in screen model called the MacBook
Neo. It's Apple's biggest push so far
into the low-end laptop market as it
aims to challenge Windows, PCs, and
Chromebooks for budget-minded shoppers.
The device has 16 hours of battery life
and 8 gigs of memory.
And in sports, Arsenal getting some much
needed breathing room at top the Premier
League after Baya Osaka scored the
match's lone goal over Brighton. They
now sit seven points ahead of Manchester
City who finished yesterday's match
against Nottingham Forest in a 2-2 draw.
Elsewhere, Newcastle defeating third
place Man United on a stunning goal in
stoppage time from Will Osula. That's
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next on the program, Nita Richardson of
ADP with payrolls just around the
corner. Plus, Danny has your morning
mover as shares of Broadcom gaining
after passing another test for AI. stock
in the pre-market up by close to 5%.
I wouldn't be as negative on the
productivity as you just were. 2.8% on a
last 10 or 20 or 30-year basis is a is a
really good number. And I think um we
are seeing uh companies invest in
productivity and deliver it some of that
technology uh AI but I think a lot of it
is you were caught short workers three
years ago. You invested in new
processes, new staffing models,
automation and people are seeing the
results today.
>> That was the Richmond Fed President Tom
Balkin catching up with Michael McKe
just moments ago. We're asking a lot of
Fed officials about how they're
responding to developments in the Middle
East and we're getting the same answer.
It depends how long this lasts for. If
it's a short-term shock, the textbook
tells you to look through it. If it's a
long-term shock, we've got a different
problem. When you ask the question,
what's short-term? What's long-term?
You'll get a different answer.
>> That does seem like on the margins
though, it does push back some of the
rate cutting expectations, especially if
the labor market does remain relatively
on safe footing. So now, if we get a
data point tomorrow that highlights
that, how much does that take any kind
of rate cut off the table, at least for
the first half of this year? The
payrolls report is just around the
corner. Tomorrow morning, 8:30 Eastern
time. Futures this morning on the S&P
negative by a third of 1%, declining on
the NASDAQ by 0.4. Likewise on the
Russell, we're down there by 0.8. That's
the equity market. Let's get you some
single names, some morning movers. Danny
has more. Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, John. With a negative market, it
continues to be Broadcom that's shining
up 5.2% after their earnings. Huge
demand that they see coming next year.
$100 million dollars worth of chips, a
billion rather, and that is a big change
from what they've seen this quarter.
This quarter they estimate is for 10.7.
So that's a big ramp up and puts them on
the level maybe of starting to compete
with Nvidia. Uh elsewhere we got a new
coverage uh initiated at Bernstein of
Cororeweave to an underperform that
seems to be moving the stock lower by
2%. Uh according to the analysts there,
they're doing really well with the
demand for cloud computing given the
limited capacity. But they say that once
that starts to open up, things might not
look so favorable for core. So again,
those shares falling. Elsewhere, trade
desk moving a lot. This is on an
information story. Those shares up 21
a.5% that they will be partnering with
Open AI for ad services. Open AAI
looking at a couple different people.
Analysts also note that they also uh
trade desk that is have other good
partnerships with the like of Walmart.
So, this just adds to the list of strong
corporate partnerships and thus you get
the pre-market rally. John
>> Danny, thank you. Looking forward to the
program with Danny and Matt about 10
minutes away to guide you into the
opening bow. The opening bow just around
the corner. The week ahead looks like
this. At 11:00 a.m. Eastern time, the
president receives an intelligence
briefing. Also happening today, Fed
speak from Bourbon and Gby after the
closing bow results from Costco. On
Friday, tomorrow morning, two big data
points. One is retail sales. The bigger
one, of course, is the February payrolls
report. Let's stay on payrolls.
Investors gearing up for the payrolls
report tomorrow after weekly jobs claims
came out just moments ago holding
steady. Nita Richardson of ADP writing
overall we're seeing steady broadening
of employment growth across
establishment sizes. Nita joins us now
for more. Nita, welcome to the program.
This is what we wanted to see that it's
not just health care and education that
something else is happening here. What
you see?
>> Well, let's let's be cautious. Good
morning, John. It it's not much more
than healthcare and education. We also
saw some hiring in construction jobs
this month which is very very uh good
sign going forward. I think it's tied to
a lot of data center employment. We also
small small businesses really take up
the hiring mantle. So most of the job
gains came from firms with under 50
employees. That's great news. But I'd
like to turn to the pricing side of the
price quantity framework that we use in
economics because we will see uh job
gains that I think will be in the 60s
for the private sector. We had 63,000 uh
reported for February uh with pretty
stable job growth. It's really all the
action is in wages and if wages hold up
like they have been I think that is a
good underskirt a good support for
consumer spending. Well, well, just to
build on that, Nila, what are you seeing
in terms of initial data? Is there an
increase in wages that seems
commensurate with inflation or even
above it that suggests a really robust
hiring market?
>> Well, there's actually two answers to
that question, Lisa. The first is
overall wages are holding up well. In
fact, we saw a bump in new hire pay, a
bump we hadn't seen in months going back
to a year and a half. So in January that
bump went up from $18 an hour for new
hires to 19 and it's stuck in February.
Great news. Um we're actually seeing
stability in our uh pay insights data.
This is individual match data for job
stayers sticking at four and a half for
several months but and that's this is
where we turn. Small businesses are
doing the lion share of employment gains
in February and they're less likely to
increase wages. in that their pay growth
is under current inflation levels. So
the new jobs may not keep up pace the
same way that these older jobs have. At
the same time, that's the broadening out
that a lot of people have wanted to see
in terms of the types of companies that
do the hiring. Smaller companies do
account for the bulk of hiring in the
country. I'm just wondering what you're
seeing on the margins with the
structural changes to that hiring. Are
you seeing more sort of new college
graduates getting hired? some of the
areas that had bigger pain start to
soften a little bit.
>> I I wish I could bring some good news
here, Lisa. If we're broadening out, uh
we're broadening out across
establishments, but we're still very
concentrated in healthcare and education
services. We are still very tied to the
demographics of an aging population,
less to the cyclical productivity growth
that you would expect at this point. uh
given what we what has been a pretty
solid economic picture. So, I'm still
waiting for that broadening out. I'm
still waiting for the college uh
graduate uh drive and new hires. Uh it's
not lost on us at ADP that uh the Gen Z
are digital uh natives. They're savvy
and we want them in the workforce. Uh so
we still have a bit of ways to go before
we see that entire broadening not just
across establishment size but across
sectors especially in professional
business services which we reported as
being very weak in February.
>> Nether appreciate your time getting us
up to speed on things tracking the data.
Nether Richardson there of ADP a couple
of data points I like in the labor
market. We both like the quits rate. Do
people feel confident enough to say you
know what no thank you I'm leaving I'm
getting a new job. One, two, I like the
wage data on job switches and Bank of
America came out with some data recently
for the month of January. Job changes
pay raises were less than half of the
2019 levels. This labor market is not as
hot as it was. You're not getting paid
as much for jumping ship.
>> You are though getting paid for staying
if you're performing and that's
something that you are seeing. So you
might not get paid if you're jumping
ship. Also, why are you jumping ship? I
mean it seems like there's been such a
change in the nature of people keeping
jobs. Remember the whole quiet quitting?
I know
>> this is the era of uh all of the
employers taking revenge on that
>> big time work from home all that kind of
stuff as well. Stocks this morning
negative by a third of 1%. We'll catch
up with you tomorrow. We'll catch up
with Stuart Kaiser of City. The
Republican Congressman French Hill, Fed
Governor Chris Waller joining us. Look
out for that. Nadia Levelvel of UBS from
New York City this morning. Good
morning. This was Bloomberg
surveillance.